=Courtroom
+Judge
+Payne
+Apollo
+Kristoph
Judge: The court is now in session.
Payne: The prosecution is ready, Your Honor.
Apollo: Uh, the defense is, uh, fine! I mean ready, Your Honor!
Judge: Your name was... Mr. Justice?
Judge: And this is your first trial?
Apollo: Y-Yes, Your Honor! But I'm fine!  Really!
Judge: Are you quite sure?  Your voice sounds a bit strained.
Apollo: ...*cough*
Judge: Ahem.  Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: ...Yes, Your Honor?
Judge: I was under the impression that you would be heading up this case...?
Kristoph: That was my intention, yes.
Kristoph: However...
Kristoph: A defense attorney must always cede to his client's wishes.
Kristoph: And my client specifically requested Mr. Justice.
Judge: Well, of course he wants justice!
Judge: But to entrust his case to this greenhorn... Why?
Judge: I do not exaggerate when I say that you're the best defense attorney in town, Mr. Gavin.
Judge: Then let's begin.  The defendant may enter the courtroom.
+Phoenix
Judge: This is truly an unfortunate turn of events.
Judge: I'm sorry we had to meet again under these circumstances.
Judge: Long time no see, Mr. Wright.
Phoenix: Let's put the past behind us, shall we?
Phoenix: These days, I'm merely Phoenix Wright, piano player.
Judge: I won't speak of it further then.
Judge: If the prosecution would be so kind as to explain the charges.  Mr. Payne?
Payne: To think, I saw you enter this room a fresh attorney, and now I'll see you leave in chains.
Phoenix: Ah, Winston Payne.  Subtle as ever, I see.
Payne: Ahem.
Payne: The crime occurred at the Borscht Bowl Club... a Russian restaurant.
Payne: The defendant, Phoenix Wright, took the victim, a customer...
Payne: ...and he hit him!  Wham!  On the head!  Smack!  Killed him cold.
Judge: Hmm... A customer at the restaurant, you say?
Judge: And the defendant, you say he was...?
Payne: The pianist for the club, it seems.
Judge: Phoenix Wright... A pianist?
Payne: This is the weapon that took the victim's life.  A bottle of grape juice.
Payne: Grape juice is apparently our defendant's drink of choice.
Judge: The court accepts the deadly bottle as evidence.
** Deadly Bottle added to the Court Record. **
Kristoph: Something to note, Jusice.
Kristoph: All evidence is filed in the Court Record.
Kristoph: Make a practice of checking it frequently.
Apollo: The Court Record... Right! I've heard of that!
Kristoph: Use the Court Record Button to look at the evidence so far.
Kristoph: I'm confident in your ability to handle this.
Judge: So, the victim was a customer at this restaurant.
Judge: But just who was this, erm, "Shadi Smith" fellow?
Payne: We believe he was a traveler, Your Honor.
Judge: A... traveler?
Payne: According to his passport, he had been out of the country for a number of years.
Payne: He had only returned to this country recently, though his place of residence is unclear.
Judge: And he had some sort of connection with the defendant?
Payne: ...That, too, is unclear at present, Your Honor.
Payne: We believe they first met at the Borscht Bowl Club on the night of the crime.
Judge: If they had only just met, then why murder?
Judge: Perhaps the victim slighted the defendant's piano playing?
Payne: That doesn't appear to have been the case.
Payne: No, the motive had nothing to do with the defendant's lack of playing skill.
Payne: At least not piano playing. I'll let this photo explain what I mean.
Payne: As we can see, a game of poker was in progress at the scene of the crime.
Judge: Wait a second!
Judge: Isn't poker gambling?
Judge: That's a crime in and of itself!
Payne: Indeed. It appears our defendant...
Payne: ...has fallen to become the basest sort of criminal!
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: It is true that the defendant was engaged in a game of poker with the victim.
Kristoph: Yet it was only that: a game, in the purest sense. A competition, Your Honor.
Payne: A... competition?
Kristoph: Yes, a test of wits, a silent clash of passions...
Kristoph: Only the cards, their backs wreathed in blue flame, know its final outcome.
Judge: ... Er, come again?
Payne: The cards on the table had blue backs, Your Honor.
Payne: I believe the defense was waxing poetic in an attempt to mystify those present...
Payne: ...and impress women.
Judge: That will be our first order of business here then:
Judge: To find out more about this fatal game of cards.
Phoenix: ...
Judge: Very well, Defendant.
Judge: You will testify to the court about the poker competition held the night of the crime.
Phoenix: ...My pleasure.
** Witness Testimony **
** The Competition **
Phoenix: I am a pianist by trade... yet I can hardly play at all.
Phoenix: My real job is to take on interested customers over at the poker table.
Phoenix: The room where we play and the competition in there are the club's main attractions.
Phoenix: The rules are simple: we play a game of poker using two decks of cards.
Phoenix: That's all it is... a game. And our customers are happy.
Judge: ...Hmm.
Judge: A pianist who can't play piano?
Payne: Better than a defense attorney who can't defend.
Judge: ...
Judge: Very well.  The defense may begin the cross-examination.
Apollo: R-Right, Your Honor!
Kristoph: Are you alright? You're sweating bullets.
Apollo: Bullets...!?  Where!?
Kristoph: It's a figure of speech, Justice.  Your voice sounds strained and raspy, too.
Apollo: My brain feels strained and raspy, sir.
Kristoph: You've watched me perform cross-examinations many times.
Kristoph: Though you've never done one yourself, have you?  Care for a refresher?
Apollo: No need for help here, sir! I think I've got this one covered!
Kristoph: I think you'd better do more than think.  You know it, or you do not.
Kristoph: Find any inconsistencies, any lies in the testimony, and reveal them to the court.
Kristoph: That is cross-examination. Learn it.  Know it.  Do it.
Judge: The defense may begin the cross-examination.
** Cross-Examination **
** The Competition **
Phoenix: I am a pianist by trade... yet I can hardly play at all.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You can hardly play...?
Phoenix: Oh, I play sometimes.  When customers demand it.
Phoenix: So I play them one song. That's usually all they want.
Phoenix: The title of "pianist" is a mask ** a respectable face I wear for the world at large.
Judge: Then why are you really at the Borscht Bowl Club?
Phoenix: My real job is to take on interested customers over at the poker table.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: They pay you just to play poker?
Phoenix: That would seem to be the case.  I am a professional, after all.
Payne: Bah!  Do I detect pride in that statement?
Payne: It's just hard for an honest, hard-working member of society like me to imagine...
Phoenix: Yes.  Your imagination was always a bit limited, Winston.
Payne: Wh-What!?
Phoenix: I've played poker for seven years in that little room.
Phoenix: And I've never. Lost. Once.
Apollo: Wha--?
Phoenix: You see why the customers come now?
Phoenix: "Defeat the undefeated poker champion"...
Phoenix: It's quite a draw.
Phoenix: That is, I'm quite a draw.
Apollo: Wait, you've never lost once? Not even one time!?
Phoenix: As I said, I'm a professional.
Phoenix: The room where we play and the competition in there are the club's main attractions.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: The room in the crime scene photo... is an attraction?
Phoenix: It has quite a history, actually.
Phoenix: The Borscht Bowl Club used to be a gathering spot for black market types back in the day.
Apollo: B-Black market?
Phoenix: All in the past.  Things like the black market are only on the silver screen nowadays.
Phoenix: Suffice it to say that there were a lot of deals being made under the table.
Phoenix: Right there in that room.
Judge: A smoky room, gambling hoods. You know...
Judge: Just looking at this picture makes me feel "bad"!
Phoenix: The bosses gather around the table, cutting deals, safe from the eyes of the law...
Phoenix: Meanwhile, a goon keeps watch through the small window...
Phoenix: I can practically picture it now.
Phoenix: The room had a few other tricks to it...
Phoenix: Though it was common knowledge to our regulars.
Phoenix: At any rate, they come to play poker in a room steeped in history.
Phoenix: Despite the dark past, it was all just good, clean fun.
Phoenix: The rules are simple: we play a game of poker using two decks of cards.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Two decks of cards?
Phoenix: A simple measure to prevent cheating.
Phoenix: If you alternate two decks, no one can slip in cards.
Judge: There's something else I noticed...
Judge: In addition to the cards on the table, there are some lying scattered on the floor.
Kristoph: Precisely.  Cards on the table, cards upon the floor...
Kristoph: Each one forming a complete deck.
Kristoph: A crime scene painted blue by a sad sweep of cards...
Kristoph: It's poetic, really.
Phoenix: Incidentally, we used two types of cards at the club.
Phoenix: One deck of cards was red. The other blue.
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: As I recall, in poker you make five-card "hands".
Judge: I can see how it would be easy to cheat.
Phoenix: Heh... Yes.  A game of "hands".
Apollo: ...?
Phoenix: That's all it is... a game. And our customers are happy.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: So, you claim you weren't gambling?
Phoenix: That's right.  It was simply a game.
Apollo: You didn't bet any money? Not even a little?
Phoenix: The only thing at stake in our game... was pride itself.
Judge: Ho ho! Well put, Mr. Wright.
Judge: I've got a mind to play a hand of poker myself...
Judge: The stakes: your fate!
Judge: This competition you're talking about...
Judge: I believe the court understands the nature of the game sufficiently.
Apollo: Th-That's right!
Apollo: It was a simple game, after all!
Judge: Are you sure?
Apollo: Huh?
Judge: People are not murdered over "simple games", Mr. Justice.
Judge: Defendant.  You were in the room the very moment that the crime occurred...
Judge: Yet you claim no connection to the crime?
Phoenix: ... Now that's strange.
Judge: What's strange?
Phoenix: I was testifying about the competition that night.
Phoenix: Asking me about the crime at this point is against the rules, Your Honor.
Phoenix: Of course, I expected to hear a cry of "Objection!" from the defense...
Apollo: Ack!
Kristoph: Don't despair yet, Justice.
Apollo: S-Sir?
Kristoph: Wright.  There's something I'd like made clear.
Kristoph: Namely, your connection to the case at hand.  And I'd like to hear it from you.
Phoenix: ... Sure, why not?
Judge: Very well.  The defendant will amend his testimony.
Phoenix: I plead silence regarding the murder.  But I will say I never touched the murder weapon.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: S-Silence?
Phoenix: The defendant has the right to refuse to testify.
Phoenix: ...I haven't forgotten everything about the law.
Apollo: But why?  That clearly puts you at a disadvantage...
Phoenix: And it's your job to turn that around in our favor, yes?
Kristoph: Justice.  Didn't you detect anything odd about that testimony?
Apollo: Huh...?
Kristoph: When you figure it out, I'd suggest presenting evidence.
Kristoph: Evidence that contradicts the testimony.
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: So you say you didn't touch the murder weapon... this grape juice bottle?
Apollo: ...Right?
Phoenix: So I said.
Apollo: ...
Judge: Something the matter, Mr. Justice?
Payne: Hee hee hee...
Payne: Too bad our new defense attorney never learned how to play dumb!
Judge: What's this, Mr. Payne?
Payne: I examined the bottle in question, you see.
Payne: And it was covered with the defendant's fingerprints!
Apollo: O b j e c t i o n!
Judge: No need to shout, Mr. Justice! I can hear you just fine!
Apollo: Aha ha ha...
Kristoph: Excess yelling can damage the judge's ears... and our case.
Apollo: Any... Anyway!
Apollo: What's so strange about fingerprints on a bottle in a restaurant?
Judge: Well, that's true.  The prints alone don't prove he did it--
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Oh, they wouldn't prove a thing... if they were normal fingerprints!
Apollo: ...Huh!?
Payne: But the fingerprints on the murder weapon were upside- down!
Judge: "Upside-down"?  What does that mean?
Payne: It means he was holding the bottle inverted!  And there can be only one reason for that!
Payne: ...Yes.  To brain someone with the bottle!
Apollo: Auuuuuuuuuuuuuugh!
Apollo: M-Mr. Gavin!  I think things just took a turn for the worse!
Kristoph: ...Oh?  I see no problem, Justice.
Apollo: Huh?
Kristoph: The only thing that matters is the truth.
Kristoph: There's a good reason for everything. You'll see.
Judge: Defendant!  Can you explain your fingerprints on this bottle to the court!?
Phoenix: ...
Phoenix: I stand by my plea of silence regarding the murder.
Phoenix: ...For now.
Judge: Hmm... Not very cooperative, are you?
Judge: This could hurt your case.
Payne: I'm sure he's uncooperative because he's hiding something! There must be some reason...
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: ...Your Honor.  You seem to have forgotten something.
Judge: And what might that be, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: On the night of the crime, who was it who reported the murder to the police?
Judge: Reported...?
Payne: Well, that was the defendant, Mr. Wright.  But still, that...
Judge: R-Really!?
Payne: Erm, yes, well.  According to the case file...
Payne: The murder was reported from near the scene, by a call from the defendant's cell phone.
Apollo: "Near" the scene...?
Payne: Let's take a look at a diagram of the murder scene, shall we?
Payne: The victim was murdered in a small room in a basement two floors down from ground level.
Payne: Of course, cell phones can't get reception so far down.
Payne: The defendant used the stairs in this hallway to go above ground...
Payne: The call came from the first floor of the restaurant.
Judge: I see... And this is the phone that made the call?
** Wright's Cell Phone added to the Court Record. **
Kristoph: The defendant could have just fled the scene of the crime if he so chose.
Kristoph: Yet, he fulfilled his duty as a citizen and reported it to the authorities.
Kristoph: And you claim he is being "uncooperative"...?
Payne: Urk.
Kristoph: ...I think the prosecution has toyed with our client enough for the time being.
Payne: T-Toyed?  I assure you, no one is more serious about...
Kristoph: What was it you said?
Kristoph: The defendant was "in the room the very moment that the crime occurred".
Kristoph: How can you possibly know this?
Judge: That's a good question! How indeed!
Kristoph: The answer is simple, Your Honor.  The prosecution has a decisive witness.
Payne: Hee hee hee.  You're as good as they say you are.
Kristoph: Everything up till now has been a warm-up, Justice.
Kristoph: Are you ready?
Judge: Very well.  The prosecution may call its first witness to the stand!
+Olga
Payne: The witness will state her name and profession.
Judge: H-Hold on just a moment!
Judge: Where's the witness?
Payne: I surmise that she has been frightened by the defense's demonic-looking horns.
Judge: Have no fear!  If any horns point in your direction this court will cut them off.
Olga: ... You... are sure?
Judge: I swear it on my gavel! Please, come out.
Apollo: Isn't violence against hair a crime, Your Honor?
Olga: Well, if you are sure it is OK...
Judge: Ahem.  Now, the prosecution...
Judge: W-W-Wait a minute!
Judge: Would the prosecution care to explain the witness's... erm... paraphernalia?
Payne: Er... yes.
Payne: She is a professional, Your Honor.  Those are merely the tools of her trade.
Judge: And that would be...?
Olga: My name... is Olga Orly.
Olga: I am employed as waitress in Borscht Bowl Club restaurant.
Judge: Then... why the camera?
Olga: Of course, it is my pride to serve borscht that is naming restaurant.
Olga: But I also perform ** how it is said?  Other service.
Judge: I take it one of these other services is taking the customers' pictures?
Olga: Dah, dah. Like, for example... this one.
Judge: Th-That's... the defendant!?
Payne: Indeed. On the night of the murder.
Olga: Man in white hat... is one who has gone kaput.
Judge: Indeed... That is the victim.
Judge: Order!  Order!
Judge: This is quite a piece of evidence to casually drop into our laps!
Olga: It is same way as I drop cold bowls of borscht on laps of customers... casually.
Judge: Hmm... Then the court will casually accept this new evidence.
** Olga's Photo added to the Court Record **
Payne: Now, witness.  Where were you at the time of the murder?
Olga: I was in room. The Hydeout, we call it.
Apollo: Excuse me?  The Hydeout?
Olga: It is room where famous gangster "Badgai" was arrested.
Olga: Is room where murder took place.
Apollo: Whaaaaat!?
Olga: Your look of utter surprise... It is lovely.
Olga: I will post by courtroom door later for you!
Olga: Dah, dah, photos will be numbered, and you will write which ones you want copy of.
Judge: Very well, Witness!
Judge: You will testify to the court about that night's events!
** Witness Testimony **
** That Fateful Night **
Olga: That night, customer asked me to deal cards for game.
Olga: It was cold... Both players played with hats on, dah.
Olga: The victim, he plays whole time with his hand on locket at his neck.
Olga: Then, last hand is done! But something terrible has happened, dah!
Olga: That man flew at victim, and is strangling him to death!
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: Incidentally, who won the game?
Payne: Isn't it obvious? The winner was the victim... Mr. Smith!
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: That's ridiculous! Um, because...
Apollo: Because Mr. Wright can't lose!
Kristoph: Ahem.  Justice?
Kristoph: Maybe you can come up with a more legitimate objection?
Apollo: But! He hadn't lost in seven years!
Payne: Take it from me kid. It happens.
Payne: I didn't lose a case my first seven years as prosecutor, either.
Payne: Incidentally. I have some evidence here.
Payne: These are the poker chips as they lay the very moment of the crime.
Payne: The hand and chips on this side belong to the defendant, Mr. Wright.
Payne: Those on the far side belonged to the victim, Mr. Smith.
Judge: Chips... you say?
Payne: Dah.  I mean yes!  Imagine that poker is war...
Payne: Your hand is your army, and the chips are the spoils.
Judge: I-I know that.  After all, in my youth I was known as...
Judge: ...the "Poker Head of Courtroom No. 3"!
Judge: Hmm... Looking at this picture...
Judge: ...it does seem that most of the chips are on the victim's side of the table.
** Chip Photo added to the Court Record. **
Judge: Very well.  The defense may cross-examine the witness.
** Cross-Examination **
** That Fateful Night **
Olga: That night, customer asked me to deal cards for game.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You were dealing cards... Do you do this often?
Olga: Dah, I am doing this.
Olga: If customer wishes it, I serve anything.  Borscht, cards, more borscht...
Olga: It is my work.
Judge: It's good to hear of a place that hasn't forgotten the meaning of service!
Olga: Welcome you to Borscht Bowl Club, where borscht is as warm as the waitresses!
Apollo: Thank you for NOT handing out flyers during the cross- examination.
Olga: It was cold... Both players played with hats on, dah.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: It's already April.  How could it be cold?
Olga: At Borscht Bowl Club we have pride on authentic rustic Russian restaurant theme.
Olga: Outside it is city in Spring, but inside it is always as cold as Mother Russia!
Olga: When it comes to hot borscht, cold is best seasoning, dah?
Olga: The victim, he plays whole time with his hand on locket at his neck.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: His "locket"...?
Olga: I believe it was good-luck charm, dah?
Olga: He gripped it many times as he played that night.
Judge: Yes, he must have felt as though it might carry him to the moon and the stars!
Judge: Though if it were small enough to fit around his neck, it wouldn't have much lift...
Apollo: Um... The defense would like a clarification: this is a locket we're talking about?
Apollo: I mean, a pendant with a picture in it, right? Not a "rocket"?
Judge: Of course!  I knew that!
Judge: It was probably a pendant shaped like a rocket.  That's why she called it that.
Apollo: No, a locket's a locket!  It doesn't matter what shape it is
Kristoph: It's considered bad form to poke fun at the hard-of- hearing in our society.
Payne: So, what happened next?
Olga: Then, last hand is done! But something terrible has happened, dah!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Something terrible!?!?
Olga: Eeeeeeeeeeeek!
Judge: The defense will refrain from needless shouting!
Apollo: Er, sorry.
Payne: Now, Ms. Orly, can you tell us what happened?
Olga: Oh, I was so frightened! Dah, I trembled with fear!
Olga: That man flew at victim, and is strangling him to death!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: But the defendant would never do such a thing!
Olga: Eeeeeeeek!
Judge: Well now, I can't say I've ever heard the defense try this tactic.
Kristoph: If possible... Please... Refrain from embarrassing me.
Judge: Still... Why would anyone do something like this over a game of poker?
Olga: Perhaps it is because defendant has lost game?
Payne: Yes!  A crushing defeat for a man undefeated!
Payne: So it always is with men like him.  Winners make sore losers. Oh, how the mighty fall!
Apollo: Oh really?  "Strangled", you say?  That's odd.
Olga: Dah, normal customers only choke on borscht.
Apollo: No, I mean this report shows that the victim died of a blow to the head!
Olga: Aaack!
Apollo: Ms. Orly! Really now... Did you witness the crime!?
Olga: Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeek!
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: Looking at the picture, it doesn't seem like he was hit.
Judge: He's still wearing his hat and everything.
Payne: Yet, it is a fact that he was hit, Your Honor.
Payne: Here's a photo we took of the victim with his hat off during our investigation.
Judge: Well, that's quite shocking, isn't it?
Judge: This head certainly was hit.
** Crime Photo 2 added to the Court Record **
Olga: B-But...! I have seen it happen!
Olga: The defendant, he lunge at victim, his neck...
Kristoph: ...Justice.
Kristoph: I admire your enthusiasm, but perhaps you should think this through once more.
Apollo: Wh- What do you mean? I found a contradiction!
Kristoph: There's one thing in her testimony that... troubles me.
Judge: Very well.
Judge: It seems we should continue the cross-examination.
Kristoph: There's such a thing as thinking aloud too much, too.
Kristoph: Go ahead.  I believe you know what it is you need to do.
Apollo: Right, sir!  Leave it to me!
Judge: Mr. Justice, would you care to explain what it is you're thinking so intensely about?
Apollo: Recall the testimony, Your Honor...
Apollo: The victim played with "his hand on locket at his neck", I believe she said?
Payne: I hope you aren't about to raise an objection to the witness's grammar!
Apollo: No, but look at this photograph.
Apollo: Do you see a locket on the victim's neck?
Kristoph: Well done, Justice. I'm impressed.
Kristoph: I knew you'd be able to handle this.
Apollo: B-But what does it mean?
Judge: If we are to believe this witness's testimony as-is...
Judge: Then the locket "disappeared" following the victim's death.
Apollo: Lockets don't just "disappear", Your Honor!
Kristoph: It's quite simple when you think about it.
Kristoph: If the locket is gone, someone must have taken it off, no?
Apollo: Taken it off... Wait, you dont mean...!
Kristoph: The defendant wasn't strangling the victim at all.
Kristoph: He was taking off his locket! ...Wouldn't that explain it?
Judge: Ah...!
Payne: Urk...?
Judge: D-Defendant!  What do you have to say to this?
Phoenix: ...
Judge: ... Say.
Phoenix: Yes?
Judge: I just noticed this, but...
Judge: You have something hanging around your neck, don't you.
Phoenix: Oh? You mean this?
Phoenix: Yes, it's a locket... with a photograph inside.
Phoenix: A photo... of my daughter.
Apollo: C-Come again?
Judge: Mr. Wright!  You have a daughter!?
Payne: We confirmed it at the time of the arrest.
Payne: The picture in the locket is indeed Mr. Wright's daughter.
Phoenix: ...
Judge: Well now, if the results of this poker game led to the murder...
Judge: Perhaps we should hear a bit more about the outcome of the game?
Payne: Further testimony won't really be necessary.
Payne: It's clear the defendant lost. Badly.
Olga: ...
Judge: Ms. Orly!
Judge: You will testify to the court about the game played between the victim and the defendant!
Olga: D-Dah...
** Witness Testimony **
** Serious Competition **
Olga: The game began with 3,500 point in chips for each man.
Olga: House chips come in two size: small and large.
Olga: The one who was winning... dah, it was victim!
Olga: For last hand, defendant play with all chips on table and lose.
Olga: The moment loss was decided, defendant grabs bottle from table and...
Judge: Indeed... Looking at this picture...
Judge: It does seem to be a one-sided game.
Payne: As the court knows, poker was the defendant's life!
Payne: Failure must have been a bitter pill to swallow!
Judge: Ah, how many times have I heard these words:
Judge: "I done it in a fit of anger, Yer Honor, and now I regret what I done".
Judge: ...A common tale, but true.
** Cross-Examination **
** Serious Competition **
Olga: The game began with 3,500 point in chips for each man.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Are those the usual starting points?  Were any special rules used...?
Olga: No, not special.  Usual game, usual rules.
Judge: If each man began with 3,500 points, then the total would be...
Judge: Um... Exactly six, no, 7,000 points!
Kristoph: ...
Olga: House chips come in two size: small and large.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Are the chips in this photo all the chips that were used?
Olga: Da... Dah!  Of course.
Apollo: ...?
Apollo: Maybe you could explain a bit about these "chips"?
Olga: E-Explain?  What is there to be explained?
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Poker chips are poker chips.
Payne: They're not fish and chips, not a chip off the old block, not a motorcycle cop, not a...
Apollo: ...Thanks.
Apollo: What are these chips worth? Are they in dollars? Or rubles, even?
Olga: ...Nyet. As I have been saying before, it was game, not gambling.
Olga: Hard perhaps for capitalist to understand.
Olga: Two types of chip: 100 points chip and 1,000 points chip.
Olga: It is not money, dah.
Kristoph: ...Justice.
Apollo: Sir!
Kristoph: Don't you find her comment... interesting?
Apollo: In more ways than one, sir.
Kristoph: I'd have it added to her testimony, myself.
Judge: Well?  Does the defense want the witness to add to her testimony?
Apollo: Yes, I do think this deserves further scrutiny.
Apollo: Add it to the testimony!
Judge: Very well.  Witness, if you would be so kind?
Olga: D-Dah, Your Honor.
Olga: One kind of chip is worth 100 points, other kind is worth 1,000.  Two kinds in all.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Judge: ...Mr. Justice?
Judge: Do the court a favor and think of what you want to say before raising your hand.
Judge: We are not in kindergarten.
Apollo: Ack!  Sorry!  I'm fine!
Apollo: Um... The two types of chips...
Olga: Dah...?
Apollo: Um. The small ones are 100, and the big ones 1,000...
Apollo: Uh?  Right?  Right.  Of course.
Payne: Hah! Don't waste our time!
Apollo: *sigh*
Apollo: ...
Judge: Is that all?
Apollo: Um... Yeah. *gulp*
Kristoph: Oh, Justice?
Kristoph: Please try not to embarrass me like that.
Apollo: Huh?  Who?  Me!?
Kristoph: There's a clear contradiction in the information you have in your hands.
Kristoph: It's a simple matter of calculation.  Go on, try it.
Kristoph: We're not in kindergarten, after all.
Olga: The one who was winning... dah, it was victim!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You're telling me that Mr. Wright, undefeated for seven whole years, was losing?
Olga: Dah.  It must have been most unlucky day for him.
Olga: I am glad I did not take other picture of him.  It would break camera, certainly.
Olga: The chips, they went always to victim's side of table.
Payne: So you're telling us it was a one-sided game?
Olga: Dah.  One-sided, and...
Olga: For last hand, defendant play with all chips on table and lose.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: "Last hand"?
Olga: It was largest points of any hand.
Olga: The defendant's hand, it was excellent.
Olga: He try to use it to take victory from behind.
Judge: It appears that both the defendant and the victim's hands are in this picture.
Judge: That is truly an excellent hand.  However, so is the victim's...
Olga: One with highest number wins, so defendant loses.
Payne: The victim, Mr. Smith, had a stronger hand than the defendant and crushed him.
Payne: I believe that explains what occurred next.
Olga: Once cards laid down on table, it happened...
Olga: The moment loss was decided, defendant grabs bottle from table and...
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: And...?  What happened next!?
Olga: ...Even to think of it now, I shake and tremble, dah!
Olga: I did not believe such thing would happen!
Apollo: What "such thing"!?
Olga: Please, you must believe! I had no idea...
Olga: How could such thing occur!?
Apollo: What "such thing"!?
Olga: ...Ny-Nyet! ...Nyet, nyet, nyet!
Olga: The defendant had been hitting v-victim!!!
Olga: Dah, I saw it all happen, right before me...
Olga: I saw bottle coming down on victim's head!
Payne: Decisive, isn't it, Your Honor?
Payne: My witness saw the very moment of the crime!
Judge: Hmm...
Kristoph: Remember, your first goal is to gather information!
Apollo: Yes, sir!
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: You're sure it was the victim who won?
Apollo: Absolutely sure?
Olga: ...!
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: It seems our new attorney is a bit confused...
Payne: A glance at the picture is enough to tell you who won! If you're not in kindergarten.
Judge: Um... Just for safety's sake, could you explain the problem to the court?
Apollo: Of course, Your Honor.
Apollo: In this photo I see small chips and I see large chips.
Apollo: Tell me.. which were worth 1,000 points?
Payne: Why, the big ones of course! Duh!
Apollo: Oh, I thought so too... but then the totals don't add up.
Payne: Th-The totals...?
Apollo: Let's review what the witness told us:
Apollo: Each man started with 3,500 points in chips.
Apollo: And the combined total value of the chips was 7,000 points.
Judge: Yes... if my calculations are correct!  Let's see, three plus one, carry the five...
Apollo: Um, they are, Your Honor. Now!
Apollo: Look at this photo that allegedly shows all the chips.
Apollo: If the big chips are worth 1,000 points, and the small chips are worth 100...
Apollo: And you add them up...
Payne: How much is it!?
Apollo: ...10,600 points. The chips don't add up!
Apollo: This clearly contradicts the witness's testimony!
Payne: B-But why!? How could this be!?
Kristoph: Exactly... Justice.
Kristoph: Now that you know the "what", you must determine the "why".
Apollo: Each man began the game with 3,500 points.
Apollo: If all the chips are indeed shown in this photograph...
Apollo: Then there can be only one answer.
Judge: Well, what is it?
Apollo: The value of the chips... was the other way around!
Payne: Wh-What!?
Apollo: Want to know what I think?
Apollo: The small chips were worth 1,000 points, not the big ones!
Payne: Madness!  Utter madness!
Judge: Show me that photograph of the chips again!
Judge: ...There are six small chips, and ten large chips...
Judge: Why, that does make 7,000 points when you add them up!
Kristoph: Excellent work, Justice.
Kristoph: It's almost as though you figured it out by yourself.
Apollo: Well... I'm just glad I was the one who said it.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: B-But wait!
Payne: The value of the chips may be different, but that changes nothing!!!
Judge: Indeed.. The victim did have the larger number of chips still.
Judge: ... Ah!
Apollo: ...Exactly.
Apollo: If the small chips are 1,000 points, and the large chips are 100...
Apollo: Let's do a little math. Add up the points for each side of the table!
Payne: Ah... Auuuuuuuuuuuuugh!
Judge: The victim, Mr. Smith, had 2,900 points, and the defendant had...
Judge: 4,100 points!
Apollo: Well now...
Apollo: It seems that Mr. Wright was winning that night after all!
Payne: That's... impossible!
Apollo: My client had even less reason to kill the victim!
Apollo: After all... he was winning!
Payne: Yeeeaaaargh!
Apollo: Now... Ms. Orly.
Apollo: You must have known the true value of the chips.
Apollo: Since you were there at the scene of the crime... weren't you?
Orly: Ah... Eeeeeeeeeek!
Judge: Order!  Order!!!
Judge: It appears our defendant has lost his "motive".
Judge: And Mr. Wright's supposed defeat... never happened.
Payne: Nnn... nunngk!
Judge: We must now ask ourselves whether we can trust the witness's testimony at--
Olga: *HOLD IT!*
Judge: E-Excuse me?  What is it, Ms. Orly?
Olga: I... I did not want to be saying this, but...
Olga: Actually, you see, erm...
Payne: See what, Ms. Orly!?  What do we see!?
Olga: In the last hand, there was cheat!
Payne: A ch-cheat? You... You don't mean...
Payne: ...a trick!?
Judge: Wait, or do you mean...
Judge: ..a scam!?
Olga: Yes, there was cheat in last hand...
Olga: That is why game ends with chips as they are!
Kristoph: Well, this case certainly has taken a turn...
Kristoph: ...for the interesting!
Judge: Witness!  You will please testify to the court!
Judge: Tell us about this cheating in the final hand!
** Witness Testimony **
** The Final Hand **
Olga: The last hand... both men had "full house".
Olga: There is four of each card in deck, from ace to king.
Olga: If you look at both men's hands, cheat is more obvious!
Olga: The next moment, game becomes argument, dah!  The defendant's trick was exposed!
Olga: He took bottle in his hand... Poor Mr. Smith!
Apollo: Ms. Orly!
Apollo: Why did you not tell the court about this from the very beginning!?
Olga: ...
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: A full house is a very high-scoring hand.
Judge: Not easy to make, in my experience.
Payne: That alone is enough to suspect less-than-scrupulous tactics.
Apollo: Um... Mr. Gavin?
Apollo: What's a full house?
Payne: Lawyers these days... You don't know your poker?
Judge: I can't say this bodes well for your case... or career.
Kristoph: ...Justice.
Kristoph: You know the terms "one pair", "two pair", and "three of a kind", yes?
Apollo: Uh, yeah!  No problem!
Apollo: Two cards with the same number makes a pair, and three makes a three of a kind!
Kristoph: Good.  Now picture a hand with one pair, and one three of a kind.
Kristoph: That's a full house.
Payne: You can see each player's hand in this photo.
Payne: We forget, there's an easy way to make a full house... and go undefeated for seven years.
Payne: You cheat.
Judge: Ahem.  The defense may cross-examine the witness.
** Cross-Examination **
** The Final Hand **
Olga: The last hand... both men had "full house".
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Just how hard is it to make a full house, anyway?
Olga: It is quite hard, dah.
Olga: It is making a pair and a three of kind at same time!
Apollo: ...
Apollo: I guess that's right.
Judge: Very difficult, to be sure.
Judge: You can take my word as the "Poker Head of Courtroom No. 3"!
Olga: Very difficult, dah.  But is not impossible.
Olga: There is four of each card in deck, from ace to king.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Four of each card, you say?
Olga: Dah.  There is one spade, one diamond, one heart, and one club for each card.
Olga: It is interesting fact that this number "four" comes from number of seasons!
Apollo: Huh, you don't say.
Judge: Ah, and did you know that the cards are numbered 1-13?
Judge: Add all the cards in a deck and you get 364... a year!
Apollo: Huh, you don't say.
Payne: That's why each deck has two jokers.
Payne: They say the second joker stands for the leap year.
Payne: Thus you have a perfect representation of the year... all in a deck of cards!
Apollo: Huh, you don't say.
Olga: If you look at both men's hands, cheat is more obvious!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: How was it "clear"?
Olga: Dah, well... the defendant...
Olga: ...he played a fifth ace!
Apollo: A f-fifth ace!?
Olga: I still remember both hands very well.
Olga: Mr. Smith's hand has three aces...
Olga: ...and Mr. Wright's two.
Payne: Obviously, cheating was afoot! Or perhaps I should say... a hand!
Kristoph: Your Honor... perhaps this can be added to the testimony? Without Mr. Payne's joke.
Judge: Very well.  The witness will add this detail to her testimony, please.
Olga: Mr. Smith's hand has three aces, and Mr. Wright's two. ...It is five aces in all.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: A fifth ace...?
Olga: Dah!  It should not exist, no?
Olga: I still remember both hands very well.
Olga: Mr. Smith's hand has three aces...
Olga: ...and Mr. Wright's two.
Judge: Well, where did this card come from then?
Payne: ...Perhaps we should ask the defendant that very question!
Payne: Adding cards to a deck is no less serious a taboo than...
Payne: Than forging evidence in a court of law!
Apollo: Nnnk...!
Kristoph: Now... Perhaps it's time for you to say something, Justice?
Apollo: You bet!  I've no intention of staying quiet!  Not me!  No sir!
Olga: The next moment, game becomes argument, dah!  The defendant's trick was exposed!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Do you recall what the men were arguing about?
Olga: Dah, I believe so...
Olga: The victim, he shouts, "you are cheater!" and then...
Olga: ...the defendant shouts something like, "I have objection!"
Payne: Shouting objection, eh?  Old habits are hard to break!
Payne: First he bluffed his way through the courtroom, now he bluffs his way through life!
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: However!  Mr. Wright lost the hand!
Apollo: That seems to cast the shadow of doubt on Mr. Smith!
Olga: Humiliation from losing even when cheating...
Olga: That is what set fire to defendant's heart!
Judge: So what did the flaming defendant do next?
Olga: He took bottle in his hand... Poor Mr. Smith!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: By bottle, are you referring to... this?
Olga: ...Dah.  The defendant uses this bottle to... to... *sob*
Payne: This behavior is an admission of cheating by the defendant.
Judge: Hmm... But why use a grape juice bottle?
Payne: You'd be surprised at what can be used as a weapon.
Olga: This juice is recommended drink of Borscht Bowl Club, dah.
Olga: This year's vintage is remarkable for its hefty flavor.
Kristoph: Justice... Notice anything odd?
Kristoph: Her testimony keeps changing. Now she says the defendant cheated.
Apollo: Actually, yes! I had noticed that!
Kristoph: Let's get the truth about this "cheating" first, shall we?
Apollo: Right!  Leave it to me!
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: It appears the witness is mistaken...
Olga: Miss... Taken?  But my name...
Apollo: Look, this piece of evidence clearly contradicts what you said in your testimony!
Judge: That's... the photo of the chips, is it not?
Kristoph: Justice.
Kristoph: Perhaps you ought to explain your point in a way that the judge can comprehend...
Kristoph: In other words, use your finger to "point" out your point!
Judge: Yes... Please point out the contradiction in this photo.
Judge: What particular "point" contradicts the witness's testimony?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: Ms. Orly, in your testimony, you made the following claim:
Apollo: "Mr. Smith's hand has three aces"...
Apollo: But as you can clearly see, the victim's hand only held two aces!
Olga: Eeeeeeeek!
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Well... Well maybe the witness was simply confused!
Payne: Perhaps it was the defendant's hand that held the third ace in question...
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: Take another look at the evidence!
Apollo: As you can see, the defendant also had two aces in his hand.
Apollo: Where's this fifth ace?
Apollo: I see cheating alright, and it's going on right here in this courtroom!
Judge: Two aces in each player's hand does make four aces total.
Judge: Hardly proof of cheating...
Olga: Wait!  Please!
Olga: It is true... I have seen it! The fifth ace!
Olga: There was cheating, I swear to you.
Kristoph: You're right to trust your instincts...
Apollo: Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: Who knows what lies in store for us in the trial ahead...
Kristoph: Your Honor, if I may. I have a suggestion...
Judge: What might that be, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: If you don't mind...
Kristoph: ...perhaps we might examine the actual cards?
Judge: The cards...?
Kristoph: Mr. Payne.
Payne: Urk.  Yes?
Kristoph: The players' hands that night were set aside as evidence, were they not?
Kristoph: The defense would like to request that the cards be shown to the court.
Judge: Very well, the prosecution will submit this evidence!
Judge: Which will you examine?
Judge: The victim's cards... or the defendant's cards?
Apollo: The defense requests time to examine Mr. Smith's cards.
Judge: Very well. Mr. Payne, if you would...
Payne: ...Very well.
** Received evidence: Victim's Hand. **
Apollo: Your Honor!  Look at this! One of the victim's cards...
Apollo: The back is a different color!
Payne: Eh...? Ehhhhhh!?
Olga: Th-That's impossible!
Olga: But I put that card in Wright's hand...
Olga: Ack!
Kristoph: ...What was that, Ms. Orly?
Olga: No... Ny-Nyet!  Er, I merely said, eh... Dah, I have, eek!
Kristoph: Your Honor?
Judge: M-Mr. Gavin, yes?
Kristoph: Tell me, what is the easiest way to cheat at poker?
Judge: To... cheat?
Kristoph: I'll tell you.
Kristoph: One merely needs a friend, a "comrade", shall we say...
Kristoph: The dealer!
Judge: Ah... Ah!
Apollo: Wait, so you mean...
Apollo: This witness... Ms. Orly...
Kristoph: She's the cheater. A professional, I'd wager.
Olga: Nyeeeeeeaaaaargh!
Judge: Order!  Order!!!
Apollo: Your Honor!
Apollo: Please recall the testimony we just heard!
Olga: Th-That's impossible!
Olga: But I put that card in Wright's hand...
Apollo: ...Ergo! Ms. Olga Orly conspired to cheat, not with my client...
Apollo: ...but with the victim, Mr. Shadi Smith!
Olga: Ooooooogh!
Apollo: Not only did she cheat, she cheated poorly!
Apollo: Therefore!  It's not hard to imagine an altercation between her and the victim...
Payne: Whaaaaaaaaaaaat!?
Judge: Wait, you don't mean...
Judge: The defense isn't accusing the witness, Ms. Olga Orly... are you?
Apollo: ...I am!
Apollo: The defense accuses the witness, Ms. Olga Orly, of murder!
Olga: Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeek!
-Olga
Judge: ...Mr. Payne.  Where is your witness, Ms. Olga Orly?
Payne: Erm, it appears she has lost, eh, consciousness, Your Honor.
Judge: Hmm... Mr. Justice?
Apollo: Your Honor!
Judge: It seems you've presented a new possibility to the court.
Judge: One suggesting a connection between the witness and the victim, Mr. Smith.
Apollo: And that means...!?
Judge: The court cannot pronounce a verdict for the defendant at this time!
Payne: Nnk...! What!?
Judge: I see no point in prolonging the trial this day.
Judge: The prosecution will need to make further inquiries...
Phoenix: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: M-Mr. Wright...
Phoenix: ...You can't end the trial here, Your Honor.
Phoenix: Not yet.
Payne: What nonsense is the defendant spewing now!?
Phoenix: Think.  One of the cards had a different colored back.
Phoenix: Don't you wonder what it means?
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Wh-What are you doing, Mr. Wright!?
Payne: Raising objections right when you're about to get off the hook!?  Ridiculous!
Judge: Mr. Payne, you of all people should know...
Judge: Mr. Wright has a talent...
Judge: for the ridiculous!
Judge: Perhaps we should get to the bottom of things.
Judge: Let's clear up the facts about the game that fateful night.
Phoenix: As was said before...
Phoenix: We alternated between two decks of cards that night.
Payne: That was said before!
Phoenix: The two decks at the club have different colored backs: Blue... and red.
Phoenix: One color per deck.
Apollo: Why use different colored backs?
Phoenix: If we used the same color, the two decks might get mixed.
Phoenix: We used the red deck for the last game.
Judge: Hmm... I see. But... that's odd.
Judge: For some reason... I have this impression that you were using the blue cards!
Payne: Whatever.  In the end one card of the wrong color got into the mix...
Payne: Which means there was cheating.
Phoenix: Yes, a card slipped into the deck would seem to indicate cheating...
Phoenix: Yet... this card raises two serious questions.
Phoenix: ...Apollo?
Apollo: Y-Yes?
Phoenix: Let's consider the first question, shall we?
Phoenix: Think.  In the last game... when was the card swapped?
Phoenix: There are three broad possibilities here.
Phoenix: It could have been swapped before the murder, during the murder...
Phoenix: or after the murder.
Payne: Well, yeah!  Thanks for the news bulletin, Mr. Wright!
Payne: Of course it was swapp--
Phoenix: Oh?
Phoenix: It might be as simple as you think, Mr. Payne. Or it might not be.
Payne: Nnnk!
Phoenix: I'd like to hear what Apollo thinks first...
Phoenix: When do you think the cards were swapped?
Apollo: Perhaps it happened... after the murder?
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Wh-What's that?  Ridiculous!
Payne: What's the point of cheating after the hands have been shown?  That's silly!
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: Yes!  But tell me...
Apollo: How do you swap cards during the game!?  I'll take "silly" over "impossible".
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Take it from me, son.  There's a lot of silly in this world, but very little impossible.
Apollo: Oh?  Even when the backs of the cards are a different color!?
Apollo: If you pulled that during the game, you'd be caught in no time!
Judge: Ah...
Phoenix: Quite true.
Phoenix: That would mean that the blue card in question..
Phoenix: ...was swapped after the hands were shown, after the murder!
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: OK, this is going past silly and straight on to crazy.
Payne: I ask again: what's the point of cheating after the game's over!?
Payne: Who would do that!?
Phoenix: Who indeed.  That's one of the mysteries before us.
Judge: Th-There's another?
Phoenix: Yes.  A simple, yet decisive question must be asked:
Phoenix: Who swapped the red card for a blue card?
Apollo: Wh-Who?
Kristoph: The game, and murder, is done. The victim is dead.
Kristoph: Only two remain in the room. Alive, that is.
Kristoph: The defendant, Phoenix Wright, and our witness, Olga Orly.
Apollo: The one who swapped the cards wasn't Mr. Wright, of course.
Apollo: And, well, it doesn't seem like it could have been Olga Orly, either...
Judge: Wh- What are you suggesting!?
Kristoph: That's hardly a logical conclusion, I'll admit.
Kristoph: As the defense, I think it only makes sense for you to name Ms. Orly at this point.
Apollo: Yes, yes, I know!
Apollo: But... But she was the one who dealt the cards, right?
Apollo: I... I just can't believe she would make the mistake of swapping the wrong color card!
Judge: And if the card was swapped during the game, it'd be obvious...
Phoenix: Heh. Heh heh heh heh.
Judge: Something you'd like to share with the court, Mr. Wright?
Phoenix: Oh, my apologies, Your Honor. I was just thinking how much fun all this is.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Fun!?  How about confusing!? I've no idea what the defense is claiming, Your Honor.
Payne: If the one who swapped the card wasn't the defendant, and it wasn't Ms. Orly...
Payne: Then who was it!?
Apollo: Er, yeah, well, that is the question, isn't it?
Phoenix: Precisely.
Apollo: Huh?
Phoenix: I believe we're about to see this case take... a new direction.
Judge: A new direction?
Phoenix: We'll find that, indeed, after the murder...
Phoenix: ...someone swapped one of the cards in the victim's hand.
Phoenix: And that someone made two critical mistakes.
Kristoph: I'm sure you're going to tell us that the first was swapping the wrong color card.
Phoenix: Because the one who did the swap didn't know two colors of cards were being used.
Phoenix: The other mistake... was the number on the card.
Apollo: Right... The person replaced the fifth ace with a king.
Phoenix: I'm sure whoever swapped it wasn't expecting there to be a fifth ace, after all.
Phoenix: All they knew was that hte game had been won with a full house.
Phoenix: So they picked up a king from the table, and swapped it in.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: B-But! There's one problem...
Payne: According to our case record this person doesn't exist!!!
Phoenix: True, not until now.  But you have to admit the possibility of a fourth person.
Phoenix: Though it's more than a possibility.
Phoenix: There was someone else there that night at the scene of the crime.
Payne: Wh-Whaaaaaaaaaat!?
Kristoph: I believe the judge spoke truthfully earlier.
Kristoph: You do make trials... ridiculous, Mr. Wright.
Judge: This trial has proceeded on one central assumption:
Judge: namely, that, at the time of the incident, there were only three people in that room.
Phoenix: I believe this new evidence, shall we say... overturns that assumption?
Judge: The problem is that you chose to conceal this information from the court!
Phoenix: ...I suppose that is a problem, yes.
Judge: Court is adjourned for a brief recess!
Judge: Mr. Gavin, I'll see you in my chambers during this recess.
Kristoph: ...Certainly, Your Honor.
Judge: Very well!  The trial will resume in five minutes!
PAUSE
Judge: Court will now reconvene.
Judge: Has our witness, Ms. Olga Orly, recovered?
Payne: Y-Yes, Your Honor!  Er, well, she's regained consciousness.
Kristoph: Perhaps we can hear her version of the events again?
Payne: That's the thing... You see, she's quite fatigued.
Judge: You're looking a bit fatigued yourself, Mr. Payne.
Kristoph: Sadly, fatigue is insufficient grounds for refusing to testify... or prosecute.
Kristoph: The defense would like to request that Ms. Orly take the stand.
+Olga
Judge: Very well. The witness will take the stand!
Kristoph: Perhaps you could repeat your name and profession?
Olga: ...
Kristoph: Or perhaps you'd rather admit that you're a poor liar, and a poorer loser.
Olga: Ny-Ny-Nye-! ... Not.
Olga: Name's Olga Orly.  That's the truth.  I'm a pro dealer.
Olga: People call me... Olga "Quick-Fingers" Orly!
Judge: Oh... Oh really?
Olga: Want to know something else?
Olga: I'm not really Russian! And my last name sounds like "Oh really"!
Olga: There, that's the truth! I hope you're satisfied.
Apollo: Witness!  You will tell the court what you were really up to that night!
Olga: Fine, I'll talk. We had a plan, see.
Judge: Let me remind you that you are currently under oath.
Judge: Any further fabrications will have serious consequences.
Olga: ... Fine.
Olga: Like I said, I'm a pro. That guy, Smith, hired me to do what I do best.
Olga: I was planted at the Borscht Bowl Club several days prior to the night of the game.
Olga: As a waitress.
Apollo: So you were in cahoots with the victim!
Olga: Not that he needed my help. Smith is a well-known poker player in some circles.
Olga: But winning wasn't the main purpose of this game.
Olga: It was about destroying a legend: the unbeatable Phoenix Wright!
Olga: The plan was simple.  Elegant, really.  You see, we set up a trap of sorts...
Olga: I was to plant a card in Wright's pocket beforehand...
Olga: ...and then deal five aces during one of their games.
Olga: When their hands were revealed, Smith would call him out and search Wright.
Olga: He would then pull out the planted card and the trap would snap shut!
Olga: Exposed as a cheater and losing on top of it!  It would have made a great double play.
Olga: Just like that, the legend would be dashed to pieces.
Judge: Indeed...
Judge: Getting caught red-handed at cheating would cast doubt on all his prior wins...
Olga: A seven-year legend, destroyed by one little card...
Olga: That was the plan!
Kristoph: "Oh really, Orly"? How droll.
Kristoph: But... it appears you made quite the mistake.
Judge: A mistake?
Kristoph: I agree, the trap was elegant.
Kristoph: Yet, what happened to that planted card?
Apollo: Hey, that's right!
Olga: He's lucky, I'll give him that.
Olga: You'd have to be to slip free from a trap laid by Olga "Quick-Fingers" Orly!
Judge: Oh really?
Judge: The witness would me much cuter if she dispensed with the evil mastermind shtick.
Olga: Cute...?  Who wants to be cute?
Olga: I'm not cute!  I'm bad! You hear me?  Bad!!!
Judge: When you're through being bad, perhaps you could testify to the court?
Judge: Tell us about this "trap"... and how it was sprung.
** Witness Testimony **
** The Best Laid Traps **
Olga: That night, I planted the card like I was supposed to.
Olga: And Wright lost the last hand, just like he was supposed to. Then Smith searched him!
Olga: But the planted card was gone! The trap failed.
Olga: The next moment, Wright picked up a bottle and swung it!
Olga: It wasn't me who hit Smith! It was that no-good, cheating defendant!
Judge: Hmm... A surprisingly frank testimony that stil leaves us mostly in the dark.
Olga: The trap was perfect I tell you, perfect!  If that rotten cheater hadn't messed it up.
Apollo: Look who's talking!
Judge: Well, the testimony, for what it's worth, is all yours, Mr. Justice.
** Cross-Examination **
** The Best Laid Traps **
Olga: That night, I planted the card like I was supposed to.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: This planted card... which card was it, exactly?
Olga: The trump card... the Five of Hearts.
Judge: Let me guess.  Mr. Wright was to have switched the Five with the Ace to make a full house.
Judge: At least, that's what you were going to accuse him of doing, thereby ruining his legend.
Olga: I slid it into Wright's pocket.
Apollo: When was this...?
Olga: Why, before the match, of course. While he was eating.
Olga: At the Borscht Bowl Club, we serve borscht... and suckers.
Judge: Remind me never to go there.
Olga: Of course, the card was to make its grand debut during the game...
Olga: Like a good borscht, a good plot must be cooked up early and allowed to thicken.
Olga: And Wright lost the last hand, just like he was supposed to. Then Smith searched him!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: So, everything went according to plan...
Olga: Exactly.
Olga: The fifth ace came up, so it's obvious the switch went off without a hitch.
Olga: Once the extra card was found in his pocket...
Olga: ...Wright would be forever known as a cheat and a fraud.
Judge: There are worse things to be known as I suppose.
Apollo: Tell us what happened with the search.
Olga: But the planted card was gone! The trap failed.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: The card... disappeared?
Olga: Yeah!  My trump card, the Five of Hearts!
Olga: Gone!  Without a trace! Poof!  Zippo!
Olga: We searched every nook and cranny...
Olga: Even inside his cute little hat!
Apollo: But the card was nowhere to be found, is this correct?
Olga: Never in my long, storied career...
Olga: Never has "Quick-Fingers" Orly been so readily duped!
Judge: Oh really. So, what did happen to that Five of Hearts?
Olga: Don't look at me.  Why don't you ask that cheating, lying, two-faced defendant?
Olga: The next moment, Wright picked up a bottle and swung it!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Wait... Isn't that a little odd?
Olga: Wh-What's odd!?
Apollo: You searched Mr. Wright, er, thoroughly, and found nothing?
Apollo: Which means he didn't cheat... Which means he had no reason to strike the victim!
Olga: W-Well...
Judge: Something wrong, Mr. Justice?
Apollo: Ms. Orly...! You're hiding something!
Olga: Wh-What are you talking about!?  Y-Y-You!
Olga: M-M-M-Me?  "Quick-Fingers" Orly, hi-hi-hide something?
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: The defense will refrain from baseless accusations!
Apollo: I have one question for the witness then.
Apollo: You say you saw the moment the defendant hit the victim. ...Is this true?
Olga: O-Of course it's true!
Olga: I d-did see it, honest!
Olga: I saw it when Wright hit him. With my own eyes, I saw it!
Phoenix: That witness, for instance, Ms. Orly.
Phoenix: She would touch the back of her neck during certain parts of her testimony.
Phoenix: Did you notice?
Apollo: Ms. Orly... Perhaps you are unaware of this yourself...
Olga: Un-Unaware of what?
Apollo: Whenever you get to a certain part of your testimony...
Apollo: ...you touch the back of your neck with your left hand!
Olga: ...! My... My neck?
Olga: So... So what!?
Kristoph: What indeed, Justice?
Kristoph: I hadn't noticed anything of the sort...
Apollo: When she says that part of the testimony...
Apollo: She's subconsciously recalling something...
Apollo: Her body reacts to the memory, and she touches her neck!
Apollo: I'm sure of it!
Payne: A memory?  Would someone care to explain what he's babbling about?
Judge: This is highly unusual... but let's ask the defense.
Judge: You claim the witness is remembering something.
Judge: Maybe you have evidence of this "memory" to show us?
Apollo: Ms. Orly.  Whenever you recall the crime that night, you scratch your neck.
Apollo: I've noticed it happens when you think about the moment of the crime.
Apollo: There must be some reason behind this "habit" of yours.
Apollo: I believe the weapon that left an inerasable "impression" on your neck is this!
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: Whenever she talks about the moment of the crime, she touches her neck...
Apollo: And what reminds us more of that moment than this bottle, the murder weapon!
Olga: ...!
Apollo: But... something doesn't fit.
Apollo: If you were only the witness to the crime...
Apollo: ...why would that make you touch your neck like you're in pain?
Payne: What's he talking about now!?
Apollo: It was Mr. Smith, the victim who was hit... not you!
Olga: Uh... Uhmmm...
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: This is a cross-examination, not a cross-wild-conjecture!
Payne: Th-The witness's... "habits"!? They're completely irrelevant!
Kristoph: Justice... I'll admit, I'm a bit confused myself.
Kristoph: This is certainly a... unique cross-examination.
Apollo: I'll explain later!  Just, trust me.  Now's our only chance to break her!
Apollo: Ms. Orly!  Please testify, in detail, about the moment of the crime.  The very moment!
Olga: Ny-Nyet.  I am knowing nothing.
Payne: ...
Judge: ...
Apollo: ...
Apollo: Um, we know you're not Russian.
Judge: The witness will testify, please.  Now.
Olga: Bah.  Fine!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You're hiding something, and that habit of yours proves it!
Olga: Hah!  Ludicrous!  I'm not h-hiding anything!
Apollo: You touched your neck again.
Olga: Ack!
Apollo: It's no use trying to hide it.  I can see right through you.
Olga: ...
Olga: It wasn't me who hit Smith! It was that no-good, cheating defendant!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Let me ask, how's your eyesight?
Olga: Just who do you think you're talking to?
Olga: They don't call me "Quick- Fingers" for nothing.
Olga: I'm a pro.  Which means my dealing's pro, and my eyesight... is pro!
Payne: Honestly, she'd have to be blind as a bat to miss something in that small room.
Olga: He's the one who did it! I didn't let him out of my sight until the cops got there!
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You seem... uneasy.
Olga: You try sitting up here!
Apollo: Tell me... After the crime, what was the defendant like?
Olga: Uh.  Well... He must have been stunned by the weight of his crime!
Olga: He sat in a daze at that table ...until the cops came.
Kristoph: Intriguing...
Kristoph: I believe you've gotten all the testimony you're going to get out of this witness.
Kristoph: So, what do you think about her testimony?
Apollo: I'll tell you what I think! Her testimony is...
Apollo: ...is basically bogus. It contradicts the evidence!
Payne: Wh-What's that!?
Judge: Well...
Judge: Show us this evidence, Mr. Justice!
Judge: This evidence that you claim contradicts the testimony!
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: Ms. Orly!  We have a record here that clearly contradicts what you said!
Apollo: It states that the police were alerted by a report from the defendant!
Olga: Eh...
Apollo: And we know that the defendant left the room, climbed the stairs...
Apollo: ...and made that phone call from the first floor of the Borscht Bowl Club!
Olga: Ack!
Apollo: So, explain how you kept your eyes on the defendant...
Apollo: ...when he left the room entirely!
Olga: Eeeeeeeeek!
Olga: ...The man who picked up a bottle and swung it that night... wasn't the defendant.
Olga: Just then, Smith grabbed the bottle from next to Wright...
Olga: ...and he hit me!
Olga: When I came to...
Judge: The victim was already dead... Is that it?
Olga: That's why I couldn't reveal who I really was.
Olga: If it came out that I was in league with Smith, I'd be a suspect for sure!
Judge: ...
Apollo: ...
Payne: ...
Judge: Well. Where does this leave us?
Payne: M-Madness.  Th-This is madness! I'm dreaming!
Payne: It must have been me who was hit with a bottle and I'm imagining all of this!
Judge: It appears our prosecution is at his wit's end, and frankly, I can't blame him.
Judge: Mr. Gavin, what do you think about this turn of events?
Kristoph: ...
Apollo: M-Mr. Gavin?  Sir?
Kristoph: I believe that, as the defense in this case...
Kristoph: ...we are compelled to call Ms. Orly a "big, fat liar".
Orly: Wh-Whaaaaat!?
Kristoph: Three were in that room the night of the murder: the defendant, victim, and her.
Kristoph: ...And she has a motive.
Apollo: A motive?
Kristoph: Her plot foiled, the witness got into an argument with her client, Mr. Smith.
Kristoph: And the denouement of that argument... was murder!
Olga: What!? I didn't... I'm no killer!
Olga: It's a trap!  Someone's trying to frame me!
Phoenix: Heh heh heh...
Phoenix: What tangled webs we weave when we practice to deceive.
Phoenix: So tangled, we catch ourselves in the process.
Judge: M-Mr. Wright?
Phoenix: Such a hasty conclusion...
Phoenix: It's not like you, Kristoph Gavin.
Kristoph: What are you saying?
Phoenix: Why not consider the other possibility?
Phoenix: ...That there was another person in the room at the time of the murder?
Phoenix: A single card was swapped into the victim's hand after the murder.
Phoenix: And the one who swapped the card didn't know two colors of cards were being used.
Phoenix: ...A fourth person.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Hah, this theory again! Your "fourth person" doesn't exist!
Phoenix: Indeed.
Phoenix: That's why I decided to bring this case to court.
Phoenix: Here, where there's no escape, and no chance for deception...
Phoenix: The perfect place to catch the real criminal.
Judge: The r-real criminal?
Phoenix: And, we're in luck.  A clue to the real criminal's identity was kindly provided for us.
Phoenix: And right at the beginning of the trial, no less.
Payne: Wh-Whaaaat!?
Phoenix: Apollo... perhaps you know what I'm talking about?
Apollo: Um... sorry.
Phoenix: Remember what I said.
Phoenix: The fourth person who swapped the cards made one critical error.
Apollo: He or she wasn't considering the color on the backs of the cards...
Phoenix: Right.  But how could such an obvious mistake occur?
Phoenix: The cards used for the last game were red.
Phoenix: Yet, there is one person, here, in our court...
Phoenix: ...who thought those cards were blue.
Phoenix: Well, Apollo?  Think you can figure out who it was?
Payne: I-It's not me, I swear!
Judge: Who is this fourth person!?
Phoenix: Let's hear what the defense has to say.  Who was it?
Phoenix: Who thought the cards used in the final game were blue?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Phoenix: ... As I expected.
Phoenix: Your eyes and ears are as sharp as your hair.
Apollo: I-I was right?
Kristoph: ...
Judge: Eh?  Mr. Gavin?
Apollo: You... You don't mean...
Phoenix: Kristoph Gavin.  You were the fourth person that night.
Apollo: B-But of course Mr. Gavin knows the color of the cards!
Phoenix: ...How would he?
Phoenix: As you can see, the photo of the crime scene is black and white.
Phoenix: You can't tell which of the cards are blue: the ones on the floor, or the table.
Apollo: B-But look!
Apollo: You can see the colors in this photo!
Phoenix: Yes, but when he said the cards were "blue"...
Phoenix: ...it was well before this evidence came to light!
Phoenix: Well, Kristoph?
Kristoph: ...
Apollo: Mr.... Gavin?
Judge: Mr. Gavin! I-Is something the matter?
Kristoph: Hmm?  N-No, nothing.  Excuse me, it was just so... sudden.
Kristoph: Wright. You aren't seriously accusing me... are you?
Phoenix: Oh, Kristoph?
Phoenix: You know even I'd never take a joke this far.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: This has gone beyond ridiculous, beyond dumb... This is insanity!
Payne: The defendant accusing his own defense attorney of murder?
Phoenix: I assure you, I'm quite sane.
Payne: But what possible connection could Mr. Gavin have to the victim!?
Phoenix: I wasn't aware that I had a connection to Mr. Smith, either.
Payne: Yes, but Mr. Gavin and the victim have never even met!
Phoenix: Well... What if they have?
Payne: Huh...?
Phoenix: There is a possibility, after all.
Phoenix: They may have met that night, before the game started.
Judge: What are you suggesting!?
Apollo: Mr. Wright!  The defense would like to request that you testify to the court!
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: The defense would like to request no such thing.
Apollo: Mr. Gavin...?
Kristoph: Testimonies must relate to the case.
Kristoph: How could anything happening before that game of poker be related?
Judge: I'm not sure I follow, Mr. Gavin.
Kristoph: As I explained before, the defense believes that Ms. Orly...
Judge: ...Am I to assume you speak for Mr. Justice in this?  He is the defense, not you.
Kristoph: ...!
Judge: Mr. Justice.  The matter of Mr. Wright's testimony is up to you.
Apollo: Oh... OK. *gulp*
Judge: Does the court, in your opinion, need to hear Mr. Wright's testimony?
Apollo: ...The defense would like to request that Mr. Wright testify to the court!
Kristoph: Et tu, Justice?  You would betray me, your teacher?
Apollo: I'm sorry, Mr. Gavin. This isn't about loyalty... This is about the truth!
Kristoph: ...
Judge: Very well. The defendant... Mr. Wright will take the stand, please.
** Witness Testimony **
** Appetite Before Murder **
Phoenix: That evening, Kristoph and I had dinner.  We sat at the table in the photograph.
Phoenix: Shadi Smith walked in five minutes after Kristoph left.
Phoenix: When the "trap" failed, Smith hit the waitress.
Phoenix: The girl was knocked out cold, and Smith was uncontrollable. I left to call the police.
Phoenix: When I returned, he was dead, blood streaming from a cut on his forehead.
Phoenix: That's when I made another phone call... To Defense Attorney Gavin.
Judge: Mr. Gavin!
Judge: You were at the Borscht Bowl Club the night of the murder!?
Phoenix: I dine with him rather frequently.
Payne: A-And he talked to the defendant on the phone directly after the murder!?
Phoenix: Quite against my will, I had become involved in a murder.
Phoenix: I thought I might be in need of a lawyer, so I called him.
Kristoph: You were planning this all along, weren't you, Wright?
Kristoph: Just because you wanted to drag me into your little murder trial...
Phoenix: The only thing I want... is the truth.
Phoenix: As I did back then... and now.
Kristoph: I thought my office was doing you a favor when we took on your defense.
Kristoph: It appears that I was wrong.
Judge: ...Very well.  The defense may cross-examine the witness.
Kristoph: Justice.
Apollo: S-Sir!
Kristoph: He's lying, and you're going to expose him.
Apollo: Uh... Understood, sir.
** Cross-Examination **
** Appetite Before Murder **
Phoenix: That evening, Kristoph and I had dinner.  We sat at the table in the photograph.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You had dinner with Mr. Gavin?
Phoenix: Yes, he dines with me at the Borscht Bowl Club quite frequently.
Phoenix: We were enjoying a usual dinner at our usual spot... as usual.
Apollo: "Usual"...?
Phoenix: I always eat at the table closest to the piano.
Judge: I see... Where Mr. Smith was sitting!
Payne: So, the plates and such on the table were from your dinner?
Phoenix: ...Indeed.  The remnants of my meal with Kristoph.
Phoenix: We dined for two hours, then Kristoph left.  After that...
Phoenix: Shadi Smith walked in five minutes after Kristoph left.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Five minutes?
Apollo: So, the two of them could have passed in the restaurant during that time?
Phoenix: That would have been a "fateful encounter" to be sure.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Hee hee hee...
Payne: Oh, Mr. Wright... What was it you said?
Payne: Kristoph Gavin and Shadi Smith "may have met"...?
Phoenix: I believe I did say that.
Payne: Here I was all nervous about this "meeting"...
Payne: And now we hear they just passed in the hall?
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: That does seem a little weak as a pretense for murder.
Phoenix: Oh it would be.  If that was all that really happened.
Phoenix: When the "trap" failed, Smith hit the waitress.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: About this failed "trap"...
Apollo: This is the same "trap" that Ms. Olga Orly mentioned?
Olga: The plan was simple.  Elegant, really.  You see, we set up a trap of sorts...
Olga: I was to plant a card in Wright's pocket beforehand...
Olga: ...and then deal five aces during one of their games.
Olga: When their hands were revealed, Smith would call him out and search Wright.
Olga: He would then pull out the planted card and the trap would snap shut!
Olga: Just like that, the legend would be dashed to pieces.
Phoenix: Yes... A harmless prank, in essence.
Phoenix: It was by a quirk of fate that I happened to discover it...
Payne: A "quirk"...?
Phoenix: I happened to put a hand in my pocket... and found a card.
Apollo: The card she planted!
Phoenix: Yes, I snuck a peek at it and found it was the Five of Hearts.
Phoenix: I had a feeling something might happen so I disposed of the card... before the game.
Judge: Disposed... Where!?
Phoenix: There was an empty bottle of grape juice I had been drinking right beside me.
Phoenix: I threw the card inside the bottle.
Payne: An empty bottle of grape juice...
Apollo: The murder weapon!?
Phoenix: Yes.  I rolled it up and shoved it in.  The colored glass makes it hard to see.
Judge: Hmm... A battle of wits between the deceiver and the would-be deceived!
Judge: That sounds like terrific drama...
Judge: Mr. Wright!  The "Poker Head of Courtroom No. 3" approves of this battle of wits!
Judge: Please revise your testimony with this new information.
Phoenix: I discovered the "trap" during the game, and disposed of the card in the bottle.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Why in the bottle?
Phoenix: I perceived my opponent's intent immediately.
Phoenix: I'm used to entrapment, you see.  I knew what was coming.
Judge: Hoh hoh... So you struck first!  I like that.
Phoenix: I know every trick in the book.  They don't work on me.
Phoenix: The girl was knocked out cold, and Smith was uncontrollable. I left to call the police.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: You made the call to the police from the first floor of the restaurant, correct?
Phoenix: Exactly.  Cell phones don't get a signal down in the Hydeout.
Apollo: Was anyone else on the first floor at that time?
Phoenix: Not a soul.  It was the middle of the night, after all.
Phoenix: So there, in the darkened restaurant, I called the cops.
Phoenix: After making the call, I returned to the Hydeout.
Phoenix: It didn't seem right to leave the injured waitress alone.
Phoenix: When I returned, he was dead, blood streaming from a cut on his forehead.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: And when you returned, the victim was already...
Phoenix: Dead, yes.
Phoenix: I'll admit, I was a little startled when I walked in.
Judge: A... "little"?
Phoenix: He was bleeding from his forehead, after all.
Apollo: Mr. Wright, if I may.
Phoenix: Yes?
Apollo: Take a look at this photograph of the crime scene.
Apollo: See the victim here? He's wearing a hat.
Apollo: ...I wouldn't think you could see blood on his forehead.
Phoenix: ... Good point.
Kristoph: Justice!
Kristoph: Next time you point out an inconsistency, put a little more "oomph" into it.
Judge: Mr. Wright.  Can you explain this to the court?
Phoenix: Ah... I forgot to mention something.
Phoenix: I was the one who put that hat on his head.
Apollo: Eh...?
Payne: You...?
Judge: You put the hat on the dead man's head?
Phoenix: He wore it through our entire poker game.
Phoenix: After calling the police, when I returned to the scene, his head was in full view.
Phoenix: Shining bright... Just like in this photograph.
Judge: And...?
Phoenix: I picked his hat up off the floor and put it on his head.
Payne: Wh-Wh-Why'd you do a thing like that!?
Phoenix: All I can say is... I'm sorry.
Phoenix: But that's the only thing I touched at the crime scene.
Apollo: So... Ms. Orly didn't see it?
Apollo: "It" being the victim's... er, his head.
Phoenix: I'd think not. She was out cold.
Phoenix: I believe I was the only one who witnessed his head.
Kristoph: Ah, here we go again...
Apollo: Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: Ahem.  Pardon.
Kristoph: It just seems that our client is determined to lie his way through this case.
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: In any case, please continue the cross-examination.
Judge: I'm afraid decisive contradictions call for decisive evidence.
Apollo: Oh.
Kristoph: Push him harder, Justice. Break him!
Kristoph: It's just you and the witness in the ring.  Go for the KO!
Phoenix: That's when I made another phone call... To Defense Attorney Gavin.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Could you explain why you called Mr. Gavin...?
Phoenix: I'd obviously gotten involved in a rather... sticky affair.
Phoenix: And I figured Kristoph's law offices would give me a friend rate for my defense fees...
Kristoph: Ah, glad to hear you intend to pay.
Phoenix: Oh, I'll pay in full, Kristoph.  It was I who got you involved, after all.
Kristoph: ...You may find the price of your defense quite high, my good friend.  Quite high.
Kristoph: Justice, you know what you have to do.
Kristoph: He's lying.  Expose him. Now.
Apollo: Y-Yes, sir...
Apollo: Um, Mr. Wright, if I may?
Phoenix: Yes?
Apollo: I've examined the bottle, and I don't see any card in here.
Phoenix: Hmm?  No?
Phoenix: ...
Judge: What, Mr. Wright? Surely "..." isn't all you have to say for yourself!?
Phoenix: I can't say that I know what happened to the card.
Phoenix: I did put it in that bottle, however.
Apollo: Huh...?
Kristoph: Perhaps a fifth person came and took it out?  Oh, and a sixth person could've helped!
Judge: Mr. Gavin... Mr. Wright is your client!
Kristoph: ...My apologies, Your Honor.
Payne: I won't have you disparaging our investigation, either!
Payne: We looked inside that bottle. There was nothing!
Kristoph: I believe that's enough of that.
Apollo: Uh, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: This witness's "testimony" is more like a "travesty". It's riddled with lies.
Kristoph: I'm beginning to see how you came to lose your attorney's badge seven years ago...
Phoenix: Well.
Phoenix: You certainly have a unique way of treating your clients, Kristoph.  I never knew.
Kristoph: I believe it was you who threw the first stone...?
Apollo: Mr. Wright!  If you intend to ever tell the truth about this case... It's now or never!
Phoenix: Don't be misled... I haven't told a single lie here.
Apollo: Eh...?
Phoenix: When I noticed the "trap"... I put the card in the bottle to dispose of it.
Phoenix: And when I put the hat on the victim's head...
Phoenix: Let's just say I had a reason for doing that as well.
Judge: A... reason?
Phoenix: That reason... is right here.
Apollo: Your... cell phone?
Phoenix: That night...
Phoenix: Recall that I spoke with Defense Attorney Gavin after calling the police.
Phoenix: Just in case, I recorded our conversation.
Kristoph: What's this...?
Phoenix: Now that we're all here, I see no reason why I shouldn't play it back for the court.
Phoenix: Kristoph.  I seem to be in a bit of trouble.
Kristoph: What's this? Game not going well?
Phoenix: Something like that.
Kristoph: That gentleman who challenged you... He turn out to be good?
Phoenix: He turned out to be dead. Someone hit him.  Hard.
Kristoph: You mean someone cracked that flawless bone china pate?
Kristoph: It... wasn't you, was it?
Phoenix: Me?  Please.  The cops should be here any minute.
Phoenix: I'm in your hands... Should it come to that.
Apollo: "Bone china plate"...?
Phoenix: A kind of porcelain, very smooth and shiny.  And not "plate", but "pate".
Phoenix: I believe he was referring to a certain gentleman's balding forehead.
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: The court appreciates the defendant's discretion in not indicating my forehead.
Apollo: So, after Mr. Gavin ate dinner with you...
Apollo: ...he left the Borscht Bowl Club?
Phoenix: Most certainly.
Apollo: Then... Then how did he know?
Apollo: When did he see this "bone china pate"?
Judge: Oh... That's right!
Phoenix: Yes...
Phoenix: That was when I began to see my good friend in a different light.
Kristoph: ...
Phoenix: Troubled, I returned to the crime scene.
Phoenix: And when I spotted Mr. Smith's head again, I realized exactly what was wrong.
Phoenix: Well, Mr. Gavin. The stage has been set.
Phoenix: Perhaps you would like to explain this to the court?
Phoenix: Exactly how did you come by your privileged knowledge of the victim's head?
Kristoph: ...
Kristoph: So, this is your "reason".
Kristoph: The reason why you put the victim's hat back on.
Phoenix: Your point, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: ...It's come down to this, has it... Phoenix Wright.
Judge: Order!  I will have order!!! Mr. Payne!
Payne: Y-Yes, Your Honor!
Judge: I believe this court has been left with no other choice...
Judge: Are you prepared to hear Defense Attorney Gavin's testimony?
Payne: Eh?  Ah... Urk?  Ahem! Well, as the prosecutor, I...
Judge: ...Very well! We'll break for ten minutes.
Judge: After which Mr. Gavin will take the stand for a cross-examination!
Judge: ...Are we all clear on that?
Kristoph: Crystal clear, Your Honor.
Judge: Very well!  This will be the final recess for the day.
PAUSE
Judge: Court will now reconvene.
Judge: Defense Attorney Kristoph Gavin, will you please take the stand.
Judge: Now then, if you would, Mr. Payne.
Payne: Y-Y-Yes, Your Honor!  Erm, will Mr.... er, the witness state his name and occupation?
Kristoph: Is this farce necessary, Your Honor?
Judge: Believe me, far stranger things have gone on in this courtroom.
Kristoph: ...Fine, I'll play along.
Judge: First, there's one thing we need to have made clear.
Judge: How did you know about the "secret" beneath the victim's hat?
Kristoph: Forgive my curiosity, but what is it about this fellow's head?
Kristoph: Your Honor seems to have an inordinate interest in it.
Phoenix: *OBJECTION!*
Phoenix: I wouldn't call it inordinate, Mr. Gavin.
Apollo: M-Mr. Wright!
Kristoph: What do you think you're doing, Wright?
Phoenix: Wow, things sure look different from the other side. You know what I mean, Apollo?
Phoenix: Speaking of "looking from the other side", let's consider something for a second.
Phoenix: The victim wore that hat all night, never once taking it off, except for that one time.
Apollo: That one time... being the instant he was hit!
Judge: Oh...!
Apollo: When Mr. Wright returned from reporting the crime, the hat was lying on the floor.
Apollo: Mr. Wright picked it up, and placed it on the victim's head...
Apollo: In other words, in order to have seen Mr. Smith's bald head...
Apollo: ...you would have had to be at the scene of the crime... at the time of the crime!
Kristoph: In other words, you'd have to be the real killer... is what you're trying to say.
Phoenix: ...
Phoenix: Not bad, Apollo.
Kristoph: Eh heh heh...
Judge: Mr. Gavin...?
Kristoph: ...I'm afraid that I haven't been entirely honest with the court.
Payne: Wh-What!?
Kristoph: ...Oh, I assure you, I had the noblest of intentions.
Kristoph: I did it all... to protect my client, Mr. Wright.
Apollo: ...!
Kristoph: Yet, I'm afraid in the current situation I see little reason to hide anything.
Kristoph: ...Very well.  Allow me to tell you the truth of what happened that night.
Judge: Finally!  You may begin your testimony.
Judge: Tell us... How were you involved in the events of that fateful night?
** Witness Testimony **
** That Fateful Night **
Kristoph: The rage I sensed in that man that night troubled me... So I returned to the club.
Kristoph: I went down to the basement and peeked in through the little window to the Hydeout.
Kristoph: It must have been right after the murder took place.
Kristoph: The victim was dead, as he appears in the photo.
Kristoph: A bald head, an unconscious girl... and Wright, holding a bottle in his hand.
Kristoph: I sensed that was not the best place for me to be at the time and so I left.
Kristoph: That's when the call came from Wright.
Payne: So... you witnessed the murder!?
Kristoph: For better or worse, I missed the actual moment of the deed.
Judge: Mr. Gavin, may I remind you that you are on Mr. Wright's defense team...
Judge: Your testimony is clearly disadvantageous to your client!
Kristoph: What else could I say?
Kristoph: I'm standing on the witness stand, after all.
Phoenix: ...So you are, Mr. Gavin.
Kristoph: ...?
Phoenix: And you had to testify as you just did...
Phoenix: You had to tell them you saw the scene of the crime through that little window...
Apollo: Uh, Mr. Wright?
Phoenix: You had to say that...
Phoenix: ...because that was the only probable window of opportunity.  Right, Apollo?
Apollo: Oh...
Judge: Mr. Wright, the defense should do the cross-examination, not the defendant!
Judge: Mr. Justice, are you prepared?
Apollo: Yes, Your Honor...
** Cross-Examination **
** That Fateful Night **
Kristoph: The rage I sensed in that man that night troubled me... So I returned to the club.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: "That man"... You mean Mr. Smith?
Kristoph: He was different from the other customers... His aura, shall we say.
Kristoph: I knew he was a serious poker player... but it was more than that.
Payne: So then, you knew the true nature of your client's job!?
Kristoph: Of course.  But I also knew he wasn't engaged in gambling, which would be illegal.
Kristoph: Worried for my friend, I returned to the club.
Kristoph: You see, I feared this Mr. Smith might be someone coming to settle an old score.
Judge: I see.  What happened then?
Kristoph: I went down to the basement and peeked in through the little window to the Hydeout.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: The little window...
Apollo: You mean the one used to keep watch up the stairs?
Kristoph: Yes, a relic of the ancient past.  The black marketeers used it, I believe.
Apollo: Why did you go through the trouble of peeking in through the window?
Apollo: Wouldn't it have been easier to just open the door and go into the room?
Kristoph: ...
Kristoph: I didn't want to upset Wright, you see.
Apollo: Upset Mr. Wright?
Kristoph: Yes.  What if my fears had been unfounded?
Kristoph: I'd be walking in on their match!  Bad form, to say the least.
Kristoph: It must have been right after the murder took place.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: How do you know it was "right after" the murder!?
Kristoph: Really, no need to shout, Justice.
Apollo: Urk...
Kristoph: I was just getting to that part in my testimony.
Phoenix: Ah, there he is!  The "Coolest Defense in the West" we know and love.
Phoenix: Even when you're standing up there on the witness stand... Some things never change.
Kristoph: I was afraid you'd changed, too, Wright, but you haven't.
Kristoph: You and that overbearing personality of yours...
Kristoph: The victim was dead, as he appears in the photo.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: By "photo" you mean the second photograph of the crime scene?
Kristoph: Precisely.  You see, he wasn't wearing his hat then.
Kristoph: I saw his head... when he was dead.
Payne: Can you describe the scene of the crime for us?
Kristoph: A bald head, an unconscious girl... and Wright, holding a bottle in his hand.
Apollo: *HOLD IT!*
Apollo: Those were the only three at the scene of the crime?
Kristoph: Yes... As far as I saw, at least.
Payne: ...Then we're back where we started.
Payne: The killer was the defendant, Phoenix Wright!  Who else could it have been?
Payne: But... why didn't you talk to the police?
Kristoph: Two reasons.
Kristoph: First, I didn't actually witness the very moment of the crime...
Kristoph: Second...
Kristoph: My office was asked to defend Wright.
Kristoph: Even after seeing what I had seen... I couldn't abandon my friend.
Judge: Hmm...
Apollo: *OBJECTION!*
Apollo: There must have been someone else there at the moment of the crime!
Kristoph: Justice... I just said I saw no one.  Not a soul.
Apollo: B-But, that goes against what Mr. Wright said!
Kristoph: Ah yes, this mysterious "fourth person"...
Kristoph: ...who would conveniently be the "real killer", I suppose.
Phoenix: Glad to see we agree, Mr. Gavin.
Kristoph: Let me pose a question, then.
Kristoph: Tell me.
Kristoph: What possible reason did the "real killer" have to swap cards in the victim's hand?
Apollo: ...!
Kristoph: Hmm?  Perhaps you can show us a reason why such a thing would be necessary?
Phoenix: Remember, Apollo.  The card that was swapped out was the fifth ace...
Apollo: The fifth ace... right.
Judge: Well, Mr. Justice?
Judge: The question of why the killer would swap out a card has been raised.
Judge: Can you point to a reason?
Apollo: The defense would like to present evidence to the court...
Apollo: Evidence showing the reason why a card was swapped out!
Kristoph: ...
Judge: Then go ahead and point out your reason, Mr. Justice.
Judge: Why did the killer take the fifth ace!?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: My reason is... uh... This!
Payne: Is that an... ace?
Judge: Why... Why, it's got blood on it!
Judge: Right next to the spade!
Kristoph: Wh- Whaaaaat!?
Payne: This is insane!  Why wasn't I told about this!? Why!?
Judge: Could... this be...!?
Judge: Could this be the missing fifth ace!?
Kristoph: In-Inconceivable! How could you...
Kristoph: What are you doing with that card!?
Apollo: Um, well, that's the thing...
Phoenix: Oh, that card? It's mine.
Phoenix: That is, I picked it up at the Borscht Bowl Club that night after the murder had occurred.
Phoenix: I gave it to my daughter. Cards are her stock and trade, after all.
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: N... No! Impossible! Unacceptable!
Kristoph: The court can't accept this evidence!  It's a fraud!
Phoenix: A fraud?  How can you be so sure?
Kristoph: Wh-What...?
Phoenix: I would think the only person who could claim it was a fraud...
Phoenix: ...would be the one who took the real card from the crime scene... The real killer!
Kristoph: ...!
Phoenix: Allow me to elaborate.
Phoenix: What if this trace of blood was the reason?
Payne: The reason for...?
Phoenix: For the killer to take the card from the scene of the crime.
Judge: Where are you going with this?
Phoenix: Take another look at the photo... and at the victim's head.
Phoenix: At the moment of the crime, his hat fell to the floor...
Phoenix: ...and a trickle of blood ran from his forehead down the back of his head.
Phoenix: Couldn't a drop of that blood have fallen on one of the cards?
Apollo: I suppose...
Phoenix: The killer then took the card to hide the blood.
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: R-Regardless!  That evidence is non-permissible!
Phoenix: Oh?
Kristoph: Wright!  Regardless of how you wasted the last seven years, you used to be a lawyer!
Kristoph: You know what a serious crime it is to conceal evidence!
Phoenix: Oh, we can discuss the finer points of our legal system later...
Phoenix: What's important now is that I've answered your question.
Kristoph: Wh-What are you talking about?
Phoenix: You wanted to know why the killer would have taken a card from the crime scene.
Phoenix: And now, I've told you.
Phoenix: That one drop of blood would have been decisive evidence, you see.
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: Th-This is... baseless conjecture!  Baseless!
Phoenix: *OBJECTION!*
Phoenix: Oh, I assure you it's quite based.
Kristoph: Wh-What!?
Phoenix: It's amazing, really.
Phoenix: How a single drop of blood on a single card can lead us... to the truth.
Phoenix: It's quite simple.
Phoenix: Well, Apollo?
Apollo: Y-Yes!?
Phoenix: Try picturing the scene of the crime in your head.
Phoenix: The murder took place in the Hydeout...
Phoenix: The body of the luckless victim was found at the poker table.
Phoenix: And, before the killer swapped a card out...
Phoenix: ...there was a single card with a drop of blood on it in the victim's hand.
Phoenix: Given this...
Phoenix: ...there is one, decisive problem with this scene.
Judge: Well, what is it!?
Phoenix: Let's keep it simple, shall we?  Given that there was a drop of blood on a card...
Phoenix: ...whose position in this diagram doesn't fit?
Phoenix: The vicim's?  The killer's? The witness's?  The second witness's?
Phoenix: Whose position doesn't fit with the bloody card?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: Well, isn't it the victim's position that's the problem?
Judge: I don't follow your logic here, Mr. Justice.
Apollo: Well... Look, the victim was struck on the head, sending him back in his chair.
Apollo: You'd think any blood would fall behind the body, not onto the table in front of him.
Judge: Ah...!
Apollo: Take a look at the photo again.
Apollo: If he bled in this position...
Apollo: The blood would fall on the floor, not on the cards.
Judge: Why, that's right! So... what does this mean?
Phoenix: Incidentally, we were sitting in swivel chairs.
Apollo: S-Swivel chairs!? Oh man...
Phoenix: Apollo, try turning the chair around.
Judge: The chair was facing the other way!?
Apollo: It would have to be.
Apollo: So, we have to assume that at the time of the murder...
Apollo: ...the victim's chair was facing away from the table!
Judge: When Mr. Wright returned from informing the police, which way was the chair facing?
Phoenix: When I came back to the room, the body was facing as seen in this photo.
Apollo: That would mean... the killer turned the chair back around.
Kristoph: ...
Phoenix: Let's take the next step. Look at the diagram once more.
Phoenix: We know now the victim was facing away from the table at the time of the murder.
Phoenix: But... this creates another significant contradiction.
Payne: A-Again!?
Phoenix: Let's test your reasoning skills again, shall we?
Phoenix: Apollo, whose location on this diagram contradicts our new understanding of the crime?
Phoenix: The victim's?  The killer's? The witness's?  The second witness's?
Phoenix: Whose location creates a contradiction if the victim was facing away?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: The victim was struck from the front, correct?
Phoenix: Indeed.
Apollo: Well, wouldn't it be hard for the killer to hit him from the front?
Apollo: Sitting where his indicator currently is?
Phoenix: I would think it'd be quite hard, yes.
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: Yes, but what you're saying makes no sense!
Payne: Why would the victim suddenly turn to face the wall... in the middle of a game!
Phoenix: I believe a sufficient reason will soon come to light.
Payne: Wh- What!?
Phoenix: There's something in this diagram that makes far less sense, actually.
Phoenix: Look again at the diagram.
Phoenix: Apollo, if the victim was struck while he was sitting as shown here...
Phoenix: ...where would his assailant be standing?
Phoenix: Try marking it on the diagram.
Apollo: Wha--!?  B-But...!
Phoenix: Don't worry... Let's think it through and see what we find.
Phoenix: We know the victim was facing toward the wall at the time of the crime.
Phoenix: That's the only thing we know for sure.  Try to forget about everything else...
Phoenix: Where would the killer have to be standing to strike our victim from the front?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: The killer had to be standing, well... uh... Here!
Payne: *OBJECTION!*
Payne: You get points for flair, but that's about all you get.
Apollo: Ack...
Payne: I hardly need to point out that standing there would be impossible.
Payne: The victim is facing a solid cupboard!
Payne: Or are you claiming the killer climbed the cupboard and hit him from above?  Hah!
Phoenix: It's simple logic, really...
Phoenix: If this was the only place the killer could have been standing...
Phoenix: ...then that means that, at the very moment of the crime...
Apollo: Wait!  I know!
Apollo: At the moment of the crime, the cupboard... wasn't there!
Judge: What's this now!?
Phoenix: I mean, that's the only explanation!  Right, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: ...
Phoenix: Your Honor! I have a suggestion for the defense.
Phoenix: We should arrange to examine the cupboard in the Hydeout immediately!
Judge: Bailiff!  Send a team to the crime scene immediately!
Judge: Have them try to move the cupboard!
Phoenix: Ah, Your Honor?
Judge: What?
Phoenix: There's one more thing your men should look for.
Phoenix: Please give this to the bailiff.
Judge: Hmm...?  Mmm, yes... I see.
Judge: You do belong in the courtroom after all, Mr. Wright.
Phoenix: I do my best.
Phoenix: But let's forge ahead here while we wait.
Phoenix: Look at the diagram once again.  It's been changed.
Phoenix: If the killer was standing here at the time of the crime...
Phoenix: ...then this cupboard wasn't here.  Which means...
Phoenix: Apollo, try moving the cupboard.
Phoenix: Thank you.
Phoenix: As you can see, the cupboard was the problem.
Phoenix: At the time of the murder, it has to have been as shown here.
Phoenix: Now everything is in place to reconstruct the moment of the crime... Oh, my!
Phoenix: What's this...?
Judge: Wh-What is it now!?
Phoenix: Look at the diagram of the crime scene once more.
Phoenix: It appears we've found yet another contradiction...
Phoenix: What I believe to be the final contradiction, in fact.
Phoenix: Notice something, Apollo?
Phoenix: Our line of deduction is rapidly approaching its logical conclusion.
Judge: Now then.  Mr. Justice, please point to the new contradicting indicator!
Judge: Is it the victim?  The killer? The witness?  The second witness?
Judge: Which indicator in this diagram contradicts what we know about the crime?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: Um, about this cupboard...
Apollo: Are we all OK with assuming it was moved?
Phoenix: Sure, why not?
Apollo: Well, if it was... something really doesn't fit.
Apollo: The cupboard would completely cover up the window to the stairs!
Judge: Aaah!!!
Apollo: That's right! Someone standing outside wouldn't be able to see in.
Apollo: Someone... like Mr. Gavin!
Kristoph: What... What did you say?
Phoenix: Oh?  Is the "Coolest Defense in the West" losing his cool?
Kristoph: Nnk...!  Don't expect me to play along with your little game, Wright.
Phoenix: It's only a game until someone gets killed, Mr. Gavin.
Phoenix: And someone was... while the window to that room was blocked by a cupboard.
Kristoph: ...
Phoenix: So, Mr. Gavin.  Perhaps you'd like to explain to the court.
Phoenix: Exactly where did you witness the crime scene from?
Kristoph: Nnn... Nnnk!
Bailiff: Excuse me, Your Honor!
Judge: Order!!!  This is a court of law and I will have order!
Bailiff: We... We just now received word from our investigative team at the Borscht Bowl Club!
Bailiff: They've examined the cupboard in the Hydeout, Your Honor!
Judge: Oh...?  And what did they find?
Bailiff: Well, Your Honor...
Bailiff: It turns out there is a secret passage behind it!
Judge: Whaaaaat!?
Phoenix: Ah yes.  I believe I mentioned something of the sort before.
Phoenix: This is one of the tricks to the room many of our regulars know about...
Phoenix: A secret passage is a handy thing to have when you're engaged in illegal goings-on.
Phoenix: Never know when you might need to duck away from the eyes of the law.
Apollo: So the room has a secret passage.  Where does it go?
Phoenix: The other side connects to the restaurant above.
Phoenix: The underworld bosses could get away from the cops...
Phoenix: And enjoy a cold bowl of borscht, no doubt.
Phoenix: Just like our killer.
Phoenix: You see where our line of simple deductive reasoning has led us, Apollo?
Apollo: At the time of the murder, the window was blocked, and the victim's hat...
Apollo: ...was only off his head for the few minutes between Mr. Smith's murder...
Apollo: ...and Mr. Wright's return from calling the cops.
Apollo: In other words, the only place anyone could've seen the victim's bald head...
Apollo: ...was from inside the Hydeout!
Apollo: ...Well, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: ...
Judge: Hmm...
Judge: Dare I ask what really happened that night?
Apollo: Actually, I think we can probably figure it out ourselves at this point.
Apollo: That night, for whatever reason...
Apollo: Our killer had a date with Mr. Smith... A date with destiny.
Apollo: There he crouched, hidden in the secret passageway behind the cupboard...
Apollo: Holding his breath, waiting for just the right moment...
Apollo: Then the chance came... and he took it!
Apollo: Ms. Olga Orly was out cold, struck by Mr. Smith...
Apollo: But his time was soon to come. Mr. Wright went upstairs to call the cops.
Apollo: Leaving Mr. Shadi Smith alone in the Hydeout with the unconscious dealer.
Apollo: Then our killer stepped out from the secret passage and into the Hydeout.
Phoenix: The victim must have heard the cupboard sliding aside.
Apollo: He wheeled his chair around to look, and...
Phoenix: ...After the deed was done, the criminal must have seen the blood on the card.
Phoenix: He would have, of course, realized the need to destroy the evidence.
Phoenix: That single spot of blood told the whole story of the crime.
Apollo: Too bad for him he didn't linger any longer in the Hydeout that night.
Apollo: If he had, he might have noticed the cards on the floor...
Apollo: And the fact that they were all red!
Kristoph: Nnnrgk!
Judge: Well, it seems this trial...
Judge: ...has taken yet another turn.
Judge: I'm truly, truly sorry I had to see this day come, Mr. Gavin.
Kristoph: ...
Apollo: Mr. Gavin...?
Judge: Mr. Payne!!!
Payne: Yeeeearrrk!? Ahem.  Yes, Your Honor?
Judge: The prosecution will continue its investigation!
Judge: As for Mr. Phoenix Wright, the defendant, he his hereby cleared of all suspicion.
Payne: Gwwaaaarrk!?
Judge: Believe me when I say that I don't believe this is happening, Mr. Gavin.
Judge: But, I'm afraid circumstances call for me to issue a warrant for your arrest.  Immediately.
Kristoph: *OBJECTION!*
Kristoph: Oh, no need to apologize. I rather enjoyed myself.
Kristoph: It's not every day you get to witness a legendary attorney's dirty tactics first hand...
Phoenix: Your point, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: Frankly, Your Honor, I'm shocked.
Kristoph: That a person of your caliber would be taken in by such a low-grade parlor trick...
Judge: Erm... Excuse me?
Kristoph: The defendant is "cleared of all suspicion"...?
Kristoph: This is hardly the time for jokes, Your Honor.
Kristoph: Mr. Wright hasn't proven anyone's guilt or innocence here.
Kristoph: What he has done is use illegal evidence to put the blame on someone else!
Kristoph: And not just anyone else, but me, his own defense attorney!
Judge: I-Illegal evidence?
Phoenix: *OBJECTION!*
Phoenix: Let me ask you, Mr. Gavin...
Phoenix: Is there still any reason, at present, to suspect me of wrongdoing?
Kristoph: ...Of course.  This bottle, for instance.
Apollo: The bottle of grape juice Mr. Wright was drinking...
Kristoph: How do you intend to explain away the fingerprints on the murder weapon?
Kristoph: And not just any fingerprints, am I right, Mr. Payne?
Payne: Er, a-actually, yes.  The fingerprints on the bottle were, erm, upside-down.
Apollo: ...!
Kristoph: The court, and this case, demand an explanation.
Kristoph: I can think of only one reason why one would hold a bottle upside-down.
Kristoph: ...And that is to hit someone with the bottom of the bottle. Well, Your Honor?
Judge: Hmm...!
Phoenix: Ah, see how the caught fish squirms to the last... Well, Apollo?
Apollo: Y-Yes!?
Phoenix: Your boss seems awfully concerned about this bottle still...
Phoenix: But I'm sure you can come up with a suitable explanation... Just like that.
Apollo: Um... Yeah.
Phoenix: Don't let him trick you into thinking his explanation is the only legitimate one.
Apollo: Um... Is there really another?
Phoenix: Take another look at the Court Record.
Phoenix: I believe you'll find a simple answer there... In plain sight.
Judge: It... would be hasty to deliver a verdict with unanswered questions, indeed.
Judge: Well, Mr. Justice?
Judge: Perhaps the defense would care to enlighten the court?
Judge: What evidence do you have to explain why the fingerprints on the bottle are upside-down?
Apollo: *TAKE THAT!*
Apollo: It's actually easier to show you than explain, Your Honor.
Apollo: Place that bottle on the floor, next to your chair.
Judge: Excuse me?  On the floor?
Apollo: Yes.  Now, reach down and pick it up.
Apollo: ...Without getting out of your chair.
Payne: Ah...!
Apollo: See?  You naturally go to pick up the bottle by its neck...
Apollo: ...with your fingers upside-down!
Apollo: Look at this photograph taken on the night of the murder.
Apollo: The defendant, Mr. Wright, sat here...
Apollo: ...playing piano, bottles of grape juice on the floor to the side of his piano bench.
Apollo: He would have naturally picked up the bottles upside-down several times.
Judge: Wow!  I can't believe it was that simple!
Phoenix: Recall our dinner that evening, Kristoph.
Kristoph: ...
Phoenix: I was drinking my usual juice then, too.
Apollo: Basically... you used the bottle on the table to do the deed...
Apollo: But then you must have remembered!
Apollo: So you went and picked up one of the bottles from under the piano...
Apollo: And you switched the bottles!
Apollo: You took one of Mr. Wright's bottles and made it look like the murder weapon!
Judge: Order!  Order!  Order! What do you have to say to these charges, Mr. Gavin?
Kristoph: Fascinating...
Kristoph: So this is the legendary attorney's famed tactic of misdirection...
Apollo: Wh-What!?
Kristoph: You claim that I switched the bottle?
Kristoph: Where is your proof?
Apollo: P-Proof!? Well, that's, uh...
Kristoph: As I thought.  More baseless conjecture.
Kristoph: I'm afraid your "bottle" of proof is quite empty...
Phoenix: *OBJECTION!*
Phoenix: I wouldn't be so sure about that.
Kristoph: ...!
Phoenix: ...Your Honor.
Phoenix: When you initiated the investigation of the Hydeout earlier...
Phoenix: ...do you recall I requested an additional investigation?
Judge: Ah, yes, I have your memo about that here.
Judge: "Retrieve the bottles from under the piano at the Borscht Bowl Club."
Judge: And here's one of the bottles in question.
Kristoph: Hmph! What, are you going to dust that for fingerprints, too?
Kristoph: I would be surprised if any were on that but his.
Phoenix: Say, Apollo...
Apollo: Y-Yes!
Phoenix: Why don't you go ahead and examine that bottle.
Apollo: B-But why?
Phoenix: Just humor me.
Apollo: Mr. Wright...
Phoenix: That bottle will solve this case once and for all.
Apollo: What!?
Apollo: ...! There's something inside the bottle!
Apollo: Wh-What's this?
Kristoph: Th-That card...! It can't be...!
Phoenix: Recall that unpleasant woman's testimony for a moment...
Apollo: Er, Ms. Olga Orly?
Phoenix: Yes, our little swindling devotchka.
Olga: That night, I planted the card like I was supposed to.
Olga: And Wright lost the last hand, just like he was supposed to. Then Smith searched him!
Olga: But the planted card was gone! The trap failed.
Apollo: W-Wait, this isn't...!
Apollo: You're telling me that this is the planted card you "disposed of"?
Apollo: The one you mentioned in this piece of testimony?
Phoenix: I happened to put my hand in my pocket... and found a card.
Phoenix: Yes, I snuck a peek at it and found it was the Five of Hearts.
Phoenix: I had a feeling something might happen so I disposed of the card... before the game.
Judge: Disposed... Where!?
Phoenix: There was an empty bottle of grape juice I had been drinking right beside me.
Phoenix: I threw the card inside the bottle.
Phoenix: The Five of Hearts... This is the card!
Phoenix: The bottles were swapped.
Phoenix: And the only one who could have done that was the fourth person in the club that night.
Phoenix: You, Mr. Kristoph Gavin.
Payne: ...
Judge: ...
Phoenix: ...That is all.
Kristoph: Is... this your idea of revenge, Phoenix Wright?
Judge: Revenge...?
Kristoph: Revenge for the events that took away your attorney's badge seven years ago!
Phoenix: ...
Phoenix: My past is like my logic, straight and true.
Phoenix: Nothing's changed.
Phoenix: All I did was point the finger of justice in the proper direction.
Kristoph: ... Fine.
Kristoph: I'm glad we could have this little t-, Wright.
Phoenix: ...
Payne: This... This is insane! What about me!?  Don't I get to prosecute anyone!?
Judge: I believe this time we've finally come to the end of our trial.
Judge: Mr. Payne... do you have a report for us on Kristoph Gavin?
Payne: ...He's admitted everything. We're processing his arrest now.
Judge: I see.  Still, one has to wonder why he would do such a thing...
Judge: He didn't even have a connection to the victim... did he?
Payne: Er... None that we know of.
Judge: Mr. Wright, have you anything to add?
Phoenix: ...
Phoenix: I'm afraid I can't shed any more light on the matter.
Judge: About this victim, Mr. Shadi Smith...
Judge: His occupation was listed as "traveler"...
Judge: An odd profession to be sure, and that's all we know about him!
Payne: ...I'll arrange a follow-up investigation, Your Honor.
Judge: Good. Mr. Wright?
Phoenix: Yes?
Judge: Seven years... and you still haven't lost your touch.
Phoenix: Kristoph Gavin...
Phoenix: ...was a man with much significance for me.
Phoenix: Both as a friend... and a lawyer.
Judge: He was extremely talented, to be sure.
Phoenix: I needed two things before I could confront him:
Phoenix: The first was a place where no injustice would be tolerated... This courtroom.
Phoenix: The second was a man who would tolerate no injustice...
Phoenix: In other words, a defense attorney.  You, Apollo.
Apollo: Me...?
Phoenix: A dark time is coming for our legal system...
Phoenix: A twisting of justice brought on by our very own court system.
Phoenix: We have to set it right.
Apollo: Mr. Wright...
Phoenix: Our work lies ahead of us... and I, for one, am looking forward to it.
Judge: Well, this seems like a good time to announce a verdict.
Judge: This court finds the defendant, Mr. Phoenix Wright...
** NOT GUILTY **
Judge: Court is adjourned!
-Judge
-Olga
-Phoenix
-Payne
-Kristoph
-Apollo
